Chapter One SUMMER HOLIDAYS
Chapter One SUMMER HOLIDAYS
　　"George dear, do settle down and do something," said George's mother. "You keep wandering in andout with Timothy, and I am trying to have a rest.""Sorry, Mother," said Georgina, taking hold of Timothy's collar. "But I feel lonely without the others.
　　Oh I do wish tomorrow would come. I've been without them for three whole weeks already."Georgina went to boarding-school with her cousin Anne, and in the holidays she and Anne, andAnne's two brothers, Julian and Dick, usually joined up together and had plenty of fun. Now it wasthe summer holidays, and already three weeks had gone by. Anne, Dick and Julian had gone awaywith their father and mother, but Georgina's parents had wanted their little girl with them, so she hadnot gone.
　　Now her three cousins were coming the next day to spend the rest of the summer holidays with her ather old home, Kirrin cottage.
　　"It will be lovely when they are here," said George, as she was always called, to Timothy her dog.
　　"Simply lovely, Timothy. Don't you think so?""Woof," said Timothy and licked George's hand.
　　George was dressed, as usual, exactly like a boy, in jeans and a jersey. She had always wanted to be aboy, and would never answer if she was called Georgina. So everyone called her George.
　　She had missed her cousins very much during the first weeks of the summer holidays.
　　''I used to think I liked best to be alone,'' George said to Timothy, who always seemed to understandevery word she said. ''But now I know that was silly. It's nice to be with others and share things, andmake friends.''
　　Timothy thumped his tail on the ground. He certainly liked being with the other children too. He waslonging to see Julian, Anne and Dick again.
　　George took Timothy down to the beach. She shaded her eyes with her hand, and looked out to theentrance of the bay. In the middle of it, almost as if it were guarding it, lay a small, rocky island, onwhich rose the ruins of an old castle.
　　''We'll visit you again this summer, Kirrin Island,'' said George softly. ''I haven't been able to go toyou yet this summer, because my boat was being mended - but it will be ready soon, then I'll 2come to you. And I'll look all round the old castle again. Oh Tim - do you remember the adventureswe had on Kirrin Island last summer?'
　　Tim remembered quite well, because he himself had shared in the thrilling adventures. He had beendown in the dungeons of the castle with the others; he had helped to find treasure there, and had hadjust as grand a time as the four children he loved. He gave a little bark.
　　''You're remembering, aren't you, Tim?' said George, patting him. ''Won't it be fun to go there again?
　　We'll go down into the dungeons again, shall we? And oh! - do you remember how Dick climbeddown the deep well-shaft to rescue us?'
　　It was exciting, remembering all the things that had happened last year. It made George long all themore for the next day, when her three friends would arrive.
　　"I wish Mother would let us go and live on the island for a week," thought George. "That would bethe greatest fun we could have. To live on my very own island!"It was George's island. It really belonged to her mother, but she had said, two or three years back, thatGeorge could have it, and George now thought of it as really her own. She felt that all the rabbits onit belonged to her, all the wild birds and other creatures.
　　"I'll suggest that we go there for a week, when the others come," she thought, excitedly. "We'll takeour food and everything, and live there quite by ourselves. We shall feel like Robinson Crusoe."She went to meet her cousins the next day, driving the pony and trap by herself. Her mother wantedto come, but she said she did not feel very well. George felt a bit worried about her. So often latelyher mother had said she didn't feel very well. Perhaps it was the heat of the summer.
　　The weather had been so very hot lately. Day after day had brought nothing but blue sky andsunshine. George had been burnt a dark-brown, and her eyes were startlingly blue in her sunburntface. She had had her hair cut even shorter than usual, and it really was difficult to know whether shewas a boy or a girl.
　　The train came in. Three hands waved madly from a window, and George shouted in delight.
　　"Julian! Dick! Anne! You're here at last."The three children tumbled pell-mell out of their carriage. Julian yelled to a porter.
　　"Our bags are in the guard's van. Hallo, George! How are you? Golly, you've grown."They all had. They were all a year older and a year bigger than when they had had their excitingadventures on Kirrin Island. Even Anne, the youngest, didn't look such a small girl now. She 3flung herself on George, almost knocking her over, and then went down on her knees besideTimothy, who was quite mad with joy to see his three friends.
　　There was a terrific noise. They all shouted their news at once, and Timothy barked without stopping.
　　"We thought the train would never get here!""Oh Timothy, you darling, you're just the same as ever!""Woof, woof, woof!"
　　"Mother's sorry she couldn't come and meet you too.""George, how brown you are! I say, aren't we going to have fun.""WOOF, WOOF!"
　　"Shut up, Tim darling, and do get down; you've bitten my tie almost in half. Oh, you dear old dog, it'sgrand to see you!"
　　"WOOF!"
　　The porter wheeled up their luggage, and soon it was in the pony-cart. George clicked to the waitingpony, and it cantered off. The five in the little cart all talked at once at the top of their voices, Tim farmore loudly than anyone else, for his doggy voice was strong and powerful.
　　"I hope your mother isn't ill?" said Julian, who was fond of his Aunt Fanny. She was gentle and kind,and loved having them all.
　　"I think it must be the heat," said George.
　　"What about Uncle Quentin?" asked Anne. "Is he all right?"The three children did not very much like George's father, because he could get into very fiercetempers, and although he welcomed the three cousins to his house, he did not really care for children.
　　So they always felt a little awkward with him, and were glad when he was not there.
　　"Father's all right," said George, cheerfully. "Only he's worried about Mother. He doesn't seem tonotice her much when she's well and cheerful, but he gets awfully upset if anything goes wrong withher. So be a bit careful of him at the moment. You know what he's like when he's worried."The children did know. Uncle Quentin was best avoided when things went wrong. But not even thethought of a cross uncle could damp them today. They were on holiday; they were going to KirrinCottage; they were by the sea, and there was dear old Timothy beside them, and fun of all kinds instore for them.
　　4
　　"Shall we go to Kirrin Island, George?" asked Anne. "Do let's! We haven't been there since lastsummer. The weather was too bad in the winter and Easter holidays. Now it's gorgeous.""Of course we'll go," said George, her blue eyes shining. "Do you know what I thought? I thought itwould be marvellous to go and stay there for a whole week by ourselves! We are older now, and I'msure Mother would let us."
　　"Go and stay on your island for a week!" cried Anne. "Oh! That would be too good to be true.""Our island," said George, happily. "Don't you remember I said I would divide it into four, and we'dall share it? Well, I meant it, you know. It's ours, not mine.""What about Timothy?" said Anne. "Oughtn't he to have a share as well? Can't we make it five bits,one for him too?"
　　"He can share mine," said George. She drew the pony to a stop, and the four children and the doggazed out across the blue bay. "There's Kirrin Island," said George. "Dear little island. I can hardlywait to get to it now. I haven't been able to go there yet, because my boat wasn't mended.""Then we can all go together," said Dick. "I wonder if the rabbits are just as tame as ever.""Woof!" said Timothy at once. He had only to hear the word "rabbits" to get excited.
　　"It's no good your thinking about the rabbits on Kirrin," said George. "You know I don't allow you tochase them, Tim."
　　Timothy's tail dropped and he looked mournfully at George. It was the only thing on which he andGeorge did not agree. Tim was firmly convinced that rabbits were meant for him to chase, andGeorge was just as firmly convinced that they were not.
　　"Get on!" said George to the pony, and jerked the reins. The little creature trotted on towards KirrinCottage, and very soon they were all opposite the front gate.
　　A sour-faced woman came out from the back door to help them down with their luggage. Thechildren did not know her.
　　"Who's she?" they whispered to George.
　　"The new cook," said George. "Joanna had to go and look after her mother, who broke her leg.
　　Then Mother got this cook - Mrs. Stick her name is.""Good name for her," grinned Julian. "She looks a real old stick! But all the same I hope she doesn'tstick here for long. I hope Joanna comes back. I liked old fat Joanna, and she was nice to Timmy."5
　　"Mrs. Stick has a dog too," said George. "A dreadful animal, smaller than Tim, all sort of mangy andmoth-eaten. Tim can't bear it."
　　"Where is it?" asked Anne, looking round.
　　"It's kept in the kitchen, and Tim isn't allowed near it," said George. "Good thing too, because I'msure he'd eat it! He can't think what's in the kitchen, and goes sniffing round the shut door till Mrs.
　　Stick nearly goes mad."
　　The others laughed. They had all climbed down from the pony-cart now, and were ready to goindoors. Julian had helped Mrs. Stick in with all the bags. George took the pony-cart away, and theother three went in to say how-do-you-do to their uncle and aunt.
　　"Well, dears," said Aunt Fanny, smiling at them from the sofa where she was lying down. "How areyou all? I'm sorry I could not come to meet you. Uncle Quentin is out for a walk. You had better goupstairs, and wash and change. Then come down for tea."The boys went up to their old bedroom, with its queer slanting roof, and its window looking out overthe bay. Anne went to the little room she shared with George. How good it was to be back again atKirrin! What fun they would have these holidays with George and dear old Timmy!
1.暑假重逢
　　暑假重逢
　　“亲爱的乔治，静下心来做些事情吧。”乔治的妈妈说，“你和蒂米为什么总是进进出出的？我想休息一下。”
　　“对不起，妈妈，”乔治抓着蒂米的项圈说道，“没有玩伴，我好孤独啊。真希望明天快快到来，我已经整整三个星期没有见到他们了。”
　　乔治和她的堂妹安妮一起上寄宿学校。在假期里，她和安妮，以及安妮的两个哥哥朱利安和迪克，通常会在一起玩得很开心。可这个暑假，安妮、迪克、朱利安和他们的父母出门了，而乔治的父母想让乔治留在他们身边，所以她才没跟着一起去。
　　不过现在，那三个兄妹明天就要来科林庄园，和她一起度过剩下的暑假时光。
　　“他们来了就好了！”乔治对她的狗蒂米说，“好极了！蒂米，你说是不是？”
　　“汪！”蒂米叫了一声，舔了舔乔治的手。
　　乔治像往常一样穿着牛仔裤和运动衫，完全是男孩的打扮。她一直想当一个男孩，如果有人叫她的名字乔治娜，她从不会应声，所以大家都叫她乔治。在暑假的头几个星期里，她非常想念她的堂妹和堂哥们。
　　“我过去认为我最喜欢独处，”乔治对蒂米说，蒂米似乎总是能听懂她说的每一句话，“但现在我知道这个想法太蠢了。和别人分享东西、交朋友，那种感觉才是最好的。”
　　蒂米把尾巴重重地甩在地上，它也喜欢和其他孩子在一起，并渴望再次见到朱利安、安妮和迪克。
　　乔治带蒂米来到海滩，她手搭凉棚，朝海湾的入口望去。在海湾的中央，有一个礁石环绕的小岛，上面耸立着一座古老城堡的遗迹，小岛就像在守护着海湾一样。
　　“今年夏天，我们还会去拜访你的，科林岛。”乔治轻声说，“之所以一直没去，是因为我的船正在修理，但很快就会修好的，然后我就去拜访你。我要再去游览古堡，哦，蒂米，你还记得去年夏天我们在科林岛上的冒险经历吗？”
　　蒂米记得很清楚，因为它参与了那次惊心动魄的冒险。它和其他人一起去了城堡里的地牢；它像那四个孩子一样，在岛上玩得很开心。它叫了一声。
　　“你还记得，对吗，蒂米？”乔治拍了拍它说，“那里是不是很有趣？我们再到地牢里去，好吗？哦，你还记得迪克是怎样从井里爬下来救我们的吗？”
　　回想起去年发生的一切，乔治兴奋不已，这让乔治更加盼望明天的到来，因为那时她就能见到朋友们了。
　　“我希望妈妈能让我们去岛上住一个星期，”乔治想，“住在我自己的岛上将是我们最大的乐趣！”
　　这是乔治的岛，其实它是属于她母亲的，但两三年前她曾说过，乔治可以拥有它，现在乔治真的把它当作自己的了。她觉得岛上所有的兔子都属于她，所有的野鸟和其他动物也都是她的。
　　“朋友们来了之后，我会建议他们去岛上住一个星期，”她兴奋地想，“我们要带上食物和一切生活必需品，住在那里，就像鲁滨逊•克鲁索一样。”
　　第二天，乔治独自赶着小马车去接站。她妈妈也想去，但她说她感觉不太舒服。乔治有点担心她，最近她的妈妈经常说感觉不太好。也许是夏天太热的缘故吧！最近天气一直很热。日复一日，除了蓝天和阳光，什么都没有。乔治被晒成深棕色，她的眼睛在晒黑的脸上蓝得出奇。她把头发剪得比平时还要短，都分不清她是男孩还是女孩了。
　　火车驶进了车站，三只手在窗口疯狂地挥舞着，乔治高兴地叫了起来。
　　“朱利安！迪克！安妮！你们终于来了！”
　　那三个孩子跌跌撞撞地从车厢里跑了出来。朱利安对搬运工喊道：“我们的行李在列车员车厢里。喂，乔治！你好吗？天啊，你长大了。”
　　他们都长大了，都比在科林岛上进行刺激的冒险时大了一岁，就连最小的安妮现在也显得不那么小了，她扑向乔治，几乎把她撞倒，然后跪在蒂米身边。蒂米看到它的三个朋友，高兴得发了疯。
　　场面出奇的混乱，他们同时高声通报彼此的消息，蒂米则不停地叫唤着。
　　“我们还以为火车永远也到不了站呢！”
　　“哦，蒂米，亲爱的，你还和以前一样！”
　　“汪，汪，汪！”
　　“妈妈不能来接你们，她感到很抱歉。”
　　“乔治，你晒黑了！我们要玩个开心！”
　　“汪，汪！”
　　“别叫了，亲爱的蒂米，快下来！你快把我的领带咬成两截了。
　　哦，亲爱的老朋友，见到你真高兴！”
　　“汪！”
　　搬运工送来了他们的行李，并很快装上了马车。乔治拍了拍等候在那里的小马，小马立刻明白了主人的意思，开始慢跑起来。车里的四个人和一只狗开始高声说话，其中蒂米的声音最大。
　　“你妈妈没有生病吧？”朱利安说，他很喜欢范妮婶婶，因为她温柔善良，并且很喜欢他们。
　　“我想一定是天气太热了。”乔治说。
　　“昆廷叔叔怎么样？”安妮问道，“他没事吧？”
　　这三个孩子不太喜欢乔治的爸爸，因为他的脾气很暴躁，虽然他也欢迎他们来他家，但他并不喜欢孩子。所以他们总是觉得和他在一起有点不自在，他不在的时候就很开心。
　　“爸爸没事，”乔治高兴地说，“他只是担心妈妈。当她身体健康、心情愉快时，他似乎不怎么注意她；但如果她出了什么问题，他就会非常不安。所以现在要小心点，你们知道他在心烦的时候是什么样子。”
　　孩子们当然知道，昆廷叔叔心烦的时候最好躲着他。但即使想到了讨厌的叔叔，也没有让他们的兴奋减弱。他们在度假，他们要去科林庄园，住在海边，有可爱的蒂米陪着，各种各样的欢乐在等待着他们！
　　“我们去科林岛，好吗，乔治？”安妮问，“去吧！自从去年夏天以来我们就没去过那儿了，冬天和复活节假期的天气太糟糕了，现在的天气好极了。”
　　“我们当然要去。”乔治说，一双蓝眼睛闪闪发亮，“你知道我在想什么吗？我们去那儿待上一个星期该多好啊！我们现在长大了，我相信妈妈会让我们去的。”
　　“那就去你的岛上待一个星期吧！”安妮叫道，“！太好了！不可能是真的吧？”
　　“是我们的岛，”乔治高兴地说，“你不记得我说过我要把它分成四份，我们平分吗？你知道我是认真的。岛是我们的，不是我的。”
　　“蒂米呢？”安妮说，“它也应该有一份吧？我们能不能分成五份，给它一份呢？”
　　“它可以分享我的。”乔治说。她让小马停了下来，孩子们和蒂米凝视着外面蓝色的海湾。“那就是科林岛，”乔治说，“亲爱的小岛，我现在都等不及了。但我现在还不能去，因为我的船还没修好。”
　　迪克说：“不知道那些兔子是不是和以前一样温驯。”
　　“汪！”蒂米立刻叫了起来。它只要听到“兔子”这个词就会兴奋起来。
　　乔治说：“蒂米，你还惦记着科林岛上的兔子，这可不好。你知道我不允许你追它们。”
　　蒂米的尾巴垂了下来，可怜兮兮地望着乔治。这是它和乔治唯一不能调和的事，蒂米坚信兔子生来是让它追逐的，而乔治也同样坚信兔子不能追。
　　“驾！”乔治猛地拉了一下缰绳。那个小家伙小跑着跑向了科林庄园，很快他们就来到了前门。
　　一个脸色发青的女人从后门出来帮他们放下行李，孩子们不认识她。
　　“她是谁？”他们低声问乔治。
　　“新来的厨师。”乔治说，“乔安娜不得不去照顾她妈妈，她妈妈的腿摔断了。于是，我妈妈找了斯蒂克太太。”
　　“人如其名啊，”朱利安咧嘴一笑，“她看上去还真像是一根老‘棍子’ ！但愿她不要在这里待太久，我还是喜欢年纪大的、胖胖的乔安娜，她对蒂米很好，希望她能早点回来。”
　　“斯蒂克太太也有只狗，”乔治说，“一只让人恶心的狗，它比蒂米块头小，身上长满了疥癣，都被虫子蛀坏了。蒂米忍受不了它。”
　　“它在哪里？”安妮环顾四周，问道。
　　“在厨房里，斯蒂克太太不许蒂米靠近它。”乔治说，“也好，因为我敢肯定蒂米会吃了它的！蒂米想知道厨房里有什么东西，总是在紧闭的门上嗅来嗅去，斯蒂克太太都快发疯了。”
　　其他人都笑了。此刻，他们从马车上爬下来，准备进屋去。朱利安帮斯蒂克太太拿着所有的行李，乔治把马车赶走了。三个人走进屋子，向他们的叔叔和婶婶问好。
　　“好好好，孩子们，”范妮婶婶躺在沙发上，对他们微笑着说，“你们都好吧？对不起，我没有去车站接你们。昆廷叔叔出去散步了。你们最好上楼去洗个澡，换换衣服，然后下来喝茶。”
　　男孩们走到他们住过的卧室，这座房子有古怪的斜屋顶，窗外就是海湾，安妮走进和乔治同住的小房间。再次回到科林庄园多开心啊！他们和乔治，还有亲爱的蒂米一起度假，多有趣啊！
Chapter Two THE STICK FAMILY
Chapter Two THE STICK FAMILY
　　IT was lovely to wake up the next morning at Kirrin Cottage and see the sun shining in at thewindows, and to hear the far-off plash-plash-plash of the sea. It was gorgeous to leap out of bed andrush to see how blue the sea was, and how lovely Kirrin Island looked at the entrance of the bay.
　　"I'm going for a bathe before breakfast," said Julian, and snatched up his bathing trunks.
　　"Coming, Dick?"
　　"You bet!" said Dick. "Call the girls. We'll all go."So down they went, the four of them, with Tim galloping behind them, his tail wagging nineteen tothe dozen, and his long pink tongue hanging out of his mouth. He went into the water with the others,and swam all round them. They were all good swimmers, but Julian and George were the best.
　　6
　　They put towels round themselves, rubbed their bodies dry and pulled on jeans and jerseys. Thenback to breakfast they went, as hungry as hunters. Anne noticed a boy in the back garden and staredin surprise.
　　"Who's that?" she said.
　　"Oh, that's Edgar, Mrs. Stick's boy," said George. "I don't like him. He does silly things, like puttingout his tongue and calling rude names."
　　Edgar appeared to be singing when the others went in at the gate. Anne stopped to listen.
　　"Georgie-Porgie, pudding and pie!" sang Edgar, a silly look on his face. He seemed about thirteen orfourteen, a stupid, yet sly-looking youth. "Georgie-porgie pudding and pie!"George went red. "He's always singing that," she said, furiously. "Just because I'm called"George", I suppose. He thinks he's clever. I can't bear him."Julian called out to Edgar. "You shut up! You're not funny, only jolly silly!""Georgie-porgie," began Edgar again, a silly smile on his wide red face. Julian made a step towardshim, and he at once disappeared into the house.
　　"Shan't stand much of him," said Julian, in a decided voice. "I wonder you do, George. I wonder youhaven't slapped his face, stamped on his foot, bitten his ears off and done a few other things!
　　You used to be so fierce."
　　"Well - I am still, really," said George. "I feel frightfully fierce down inside me when I hear Edgarsinging silly songs at me like that and calling out names - but you see, Mother really hasn't been well,and I know jolly well if I go for Edgar, Mrs. Stick will leave, and poor old Mother would have to doall the work, and she really isn't fit to at present. So I just hold myself in, and hope that Timmy willdo the same."
　　"Good for you, old thing!" said Julian, admiringly, for he knew how hard it was for George to keepher temper at times.
　　"I think I'll just go up to Mother's room and see if she'd like breakfast in bed," said George.
　　"Hang on to old Timmy a moment, will you? If Edgar appears again, he might go for him."Julian hung on to Timmy's collar. Timmy had growled when Edgar had been in the garden, now hestood stock still, his nose twitching as if he were trying to trace some smell.
　　Suddenly a mangy-looking dog appeared out of the kitchen door. It had a dirty white coat, out ofwhich patches seemed to have been bitten, and its tail was well between its legs.
　　7
　　"Wooooof!" said Timmy, joyfully, and leapt at the dog. He pulled Julian over, for he was a big dog,and the boy let go his hold of the dog's collar. Timmy pounced excitedly on the other dog, who gavea fearful whine and tried to go into the kitchen door again.
　　"Timmy! Come here!" yelled Julian. But Timmy didn't hear. He was busy trying to snap off the otherdog's ears - or at least, that is what he appeared to be doing. The other dog yelled for help, and Mrs.
　　Stick appeared at the kitchen door, a saucepan in her hand.
　　"Call off that dog!" she screeched. She hit out at Timmy with the saucepan, but he dodged and it hither own dog instead, making it yelp all the more.
　　"Don't hit out with that!" said Julian. "You'll hurt the dogs. Hi, Timmy, TIMMY!"Edgar now appeared, looking very scared. He picked up a stone and seemed to be watching hischance to hurl it at Timmy. Anne shrieked.
　　"You're not to throw that stone; you're not to! You bad wicked boy!"In the middle of all this turmoil Uncle Quentin appeared, looking angry and irritable.
　　"Good heavens! What is all this going on? I never heard such a row in my life."Then George appeared, flying out of the door like the wind, to rescue her beloved Timothy. Sherushed to the two dogs and tried to pull Timmy away. Her father yelled at her.
　　"Come away, you little idiot! Don't you know better than to separate two fighting dogs with your barehands? Where's the garden hose?"
　　It was fixed to a tap nearby. Julian ran to it and turned on the tap. He picked up the hose and turned iton the two dogs. At once the jet of water spurted out at them, and they leapt apart in surprise. Juliansaw Edgar standing near, and couldn't resist swinging the hose a little so that the boy was soaked. Hegave a scream and ran in at once. .
　　"What did you do that for?" said Uncle Quentin, annoyed. "George, tie Timothy up at once. Mrs.
　　Stick didn't I tell you not to let your dog out of the kitchen unless you had him on a lead? I won'thave this kind of thing happening. Where's the breakfast? Late as usual!"Mrs. Stick disappeared into the kitchen, muttering and grumbling, taking her drenched dog with her.
　　George, looking sulky, tied Timothy up. He lay down in his kennel, looking beseechingly at hismistress.
　　"I've told you not to take any notice of that mangy-looking dog," said George, severely. "Now yousee what happens! You put Father into a bad temper for the rest of the day, and Mrs. Stick will be soangry she won't make any cakes for tea!"
　　8
　　Timmy gave a whine, and put his head down on his paws. He licked a few hairs from the corner ofhis mouth. It was sad to be tied up - but anyhow he had bitten a bit off the tip of one of that dreadfuldog's ears!
　　They all went in to breakfast. "Sorry I let Timmy go," said Julian to George. "But he nearly tore myarm off. I couldn't possibly hold him! He's grown into an awfully powerful dog, hasn't he?""Yes," said George, proudly. "He has. He could eat Mrs. Stick's dog up in a mouthful if we'd let him.
　　And Edgar too."
　　"And Mrs. Stick," said Anne. "All of them. I don't like any of them."Breakfast was rather a subdued meal, as Aunt Fanny was not there, but Uncle Quentin was - andUncle Quentin in a bad temper was not a very cheerful person to have at the breakfast-table. Hesnapped at George and glared at the others. Anne almost wished they hadn't come to Kirrin Cottage!
　　But her spirits rose when she thought of the rest of the day - they would take their dinner out,perhaps, and have it on the beach - or maybe even go out to Kirrin Island. Uncle Quentin wouldn't bewith them to spoil things.
　　Mrs. Stick appeared to take away the porridge plates and bring in the bacon. She banged the platesdown on the table.
　　"No need to do that," said Uncle Quentin, irritably. Mrs. Stick said nothing. She was scared of UncleQuentin, and no wonder! She put the next lot of plates down quietly.
　　"What are you going to do today?" asked Uncle Quentin, towards the end of breakfast. He wasfeeling a little better by that time, and didn't like to see such subdued faces round him.
　　"We thought we might go out for a picnic," said George, eagerly. "I asked Mother. She said wemight, if Mrs. Stick will make us sandwiches.""Well, I shouldn't think she'll try very hard," said Uncle Quentin, trying to make a little joke.
　　They all smiled politely. "But you can ask her."There was a silence. Nobody liked the idea of asking Mrs. Stick for sandwiches.
　　"I do wish she hadn't brought Stinker," said George, gloomily. "Everything would be easier if hewasn't here."
　　"Is that the name of her son?" asked Uncle Quentin, startled.
　　George grinned. "Oh no. Though it wouldn't be a bad name for him, because he hardly ever has abath, and he's jolly smelly. It's her dog I mean. She calls him Tinker, but I call him Stinker, becausehe really does smell awful."
　　9
　　"I don't think it's a very nice name," said her father, in the midst of the others' giggles.
　　"No, it isn't," said George; "but then, he isn't a very nice dog."In the end it was Aunt Fanny who saw Mrs. Stick and arranged about the sandwiches. Mrs. Stickwent up to see Aunt Fanny, who was having breakfast in bed, and agreed to make sandwiches,though with a very bad grace.
　　"I didn't bargain for three more children to come traipsing along," she said, sulkily.
　　"I told you they were coming, Mrs. Stick," said Aunt Fanny, patiently. "I didn't know I should befeeling so ill myself when they came. If I had been well I could have made their sandwiches and donemany more things. I can only ask you to help as much as you can till I feel better. I may be all righttomorrow. Let the children have a good time for a week or so, and then, if I still feel ill, I am surethey will all turn to and help a bit. But let them have a good time first."The children took their packets of sandwiches and set off. On the way they met Edgar, looking asstupid and sly as usual. "Why don't you let me come along with you?" he said. "Let's go to thatisland. I know a lot about it, I do."
　　"No, you don't," said George, in a flash. "You don't know anything about it. And I'd never take you.
　　It's my island, see? Well, ours. It belongs to all four of us and Timmy, too. We should never allowyou to go."
　　"Tisn't your island," said Edgar. "That's a lie, that is!""You don't know what you're talking about," said George, scornfully. "Come on, you others! Wecan't waste time talking to Edgar."
　　They left him, looking sulky and angry. As soon as they were at a safe distance he lifted up his voice:
　　"Georgie-porgie, pudding and pie,
　　She knows how to tell a lie,
　　Georgie-porgie, pudding and pie!"
　　Julian made as if he would go back after the rude Edgar, but George pulled him on. "He'll only goand tell tales to his mother, and she'll walk out and there'll be no one to help Mother," she said. "I'lljust have to put up with it. We'll try and think of some way to get our own back, though. Nastycreature! I hate his pimply nose and screwed-up eyes."!
　　"Woof!" said Timmy, feelingly.
　　10
　　"Timmy says he hates Stinker's miserable tail and silly little ears," explained George, and they alllaughed. That made them feel better. They were soon out of hearing of Edgar's silly song, and forgotall about him.
　　"Let's go and see if your boat is ready," said Julian. "Then maybe we could row out to the dear oldisland."
2.斯蒂克一家
　　斯蒂克一家
　　第二天早晨，朱利安醒来，看到阳光透过窗户射进来，听到远处海浪的轰鸣声，他的心都陶醉了。他跳下床来，急急忙忙地去看那蓝得耀眼的大海。在海湾的入口处，科林岛是多么美丽啊！
　　“早餐前我要去游个泳。”朱利安说着，抓起他的游泳裤，“你去吗，迪克？”
　　“那还用说？”迪克说，“叫上女孩们，我们一起去。”
　　于是他们四个人一起下去了，蒂米一路小跑跟在他们后面，粉红色的长舌头从嘴里伸出来，尾巴摇个不停。它和其他人一起跳进水里，在他们周围游来游去。他们都是游泳的好手，但朱利安和乔治是游得最棒的。
　　他们把毛巾围在身上，擦干身子，穿上牛仔裤和运动衫。此时，他们感到饥肠辘辘，便回去吃早餐了。安妮注意到后花园有个男孩，她顿时惊讶得瞪大了眼睛。
　　“那是谁啊？”她说。
　　“哦，那是埃德加，斯蒂克太太的儿子，”乔治说，“我不喜欢他。他经常做一些蠢事，比如，吐舌头、骂人。”
　　当其他人走进大门时，埃德加似乎在唱歌。安妮停下来倾听。
　　“乔治-珀治，布丁和派！ ”埃德加唱道，脸上显出一副傻相。
　　他看上去大概十三四岁，像个愚蠢而又狡猾的年轻人，“乔治-珀治，布丁和派！”
　　乔治的脸气红了，“他总是唱这一首歌，”她愤怒地说，“只是因为我叫乔治。他自以为很聪明，真受不了！”
　　朱利安对埃德加喊道，“闭嘴！你唱得一点也不好听，这都是因为你太蠢了！”
　　“乔治-珀治……”埃德加又唱了起来，他那张红红的脸上露出了愚蠢的笑容。朱利安向他走过去，他立刻消失在屋里。
　　“我真受不了他。”朱利安坚决地说，“乔治，我不知道你怎么能受得了。我想你肯定没有揍过他的嘴巴、踩他的脚、咬他的耳朵诸如此类的事情吧，你以前不是很凶吗？”
　　“我还是那么凶，真的，”乔治说，“当我听到埃德加对我唱那支歌骂我的时候，我感到怒火中烧。可是你看，妈妈的病还没有好，如果我教训了埃德加，斯蒂克太太就会离开，可怜的老妈就必须做所有的家务，而她现在真的不适合干活儿。所以我一忍再忍，希望蒂米也能这么做。”
　　“难为你了，老伙计！”朱利安钦佩地说，因为他知道乔治要克制自己的脾气有多难。
　　“我要去妈妈的房间看看她是否想在床上吃早餐。”乔治说，“等一下蒂米，好吗？如果埃德加再出现，它可能会去咬他的。”
　　朱利安紧紧抓住蒂米的项圈，当埃德加出现在花园的时候，蒂米已经开始咆哮了，现在它一动不动地站着，鼻子抽动着，好像在寻找什么气味。
　　突然，一只看上去很脏的狗出现在厨房门口。它那白色的毛很肮脏，有几处好像被咬过，它的尾巴夹在两腿之间。
　　“汪、汪、汪！”蒂米发狂地叫着，扑向那只狗。它把朱利安拽倒了，因为它是只大狗，男孩松开了狗项圈。蒂米飞快地扑了过去，那只狗发出可怕的呜呜声，想再次跑进厨房。
　　“蒂米！过来！”朱利安嚷道。但是蒂米充耳不闻。它正忙着把那只狗的耳朵咬下来。那只狗大声呼救。斯蒂克太太出现在厨房门口，手里拿着一个平底锅。
　　“把那只狗叫走！”她尖叫着，用平底锅去打蒂米，但蒂米躲开了，结果锅打到了自家狗身上，那狗叫得更厉害了。
　　“别用锅打！”朱利安说，“你会把它打坏的。嘿，蒂米，蒂米！”
　　这时埃德加出现了，看上去很害怕。他捡起一块石头，似乎在等待砸向蒂米的机会。安妮尖叫起来：
　　“不能扔石头，绝对不能！你这讨厌的家伙！”
　　在这一片混乱之中，昆廷叔叔出现了，他看上去既生气又烦躁。
　　“天哪！这是怎么回事？我从来没听到过这么大的吵闹声。”
　　这时，乔治像一阵风似的冲出来，去救她心爱的蒂米。她冲向那两只狗，试图把蒂米拉开。她爸爸对她大声吼叫：“走开，你这个小傻瓜！难道你不知道不要徒手将两只打架的狗分开吗？浇园子的软管在哪里？”
　　昆廷叔叔把软管接在附近的一个水龙头上，朱利安跑过去拿起水管，对准了两只狗。一股水流喷向它们，它们惊恐地跳开了。朱利安看见埃德加站在狗附近，忍不住把水管摇晃了一下，结果把那孩子也淋湿了。他尖叫着跑进了厨房。
　　“你为什么那么做？”昆廷叔叔生气地说，“乔治，马上把蒂米拴起来。斯蒂克太太，我不是告诉过你，你的狗到厨房外面去的时候，你必须要牵着吗？这种事不要再发生了。早餐在哪里？又晚了？”
　　斯蒂克太太带着她那湿淋淋的狗，嘴里嘟囔着，消失在厨房里。乔治看上去闷闷不乐，把蒂米拴了起来。蒂米躺在狗窝里，用乞求的目光望着它的女主人。
　　“我已经告诉过你，不要搭理那只臭狗，”乔治严厉地说，“现在你看到了吧，发生了什么！你把爸爸惹火了，这一天都不会给你好脸。斯蒂克太太生气了，她不会做好吃的蛋糕了！”
　　蒂米呜咽了一声，把头伏在了爪子上。它舔了舔嘴角上的几根毛，被拴住真是令人难过，但值得高兴的是，它把那只讨厌的狗的一只耳朵尖咬掉了一点！
　　他们走进屋子去吃早餐。“对不起，我把蒂米放开了。”朱利安对乔治说，“可它差点把我的胳膊扯下来。我简直控制不住它！它已经长成一只非常强壮的狗了，不是吗？”
　　“是的，”乔治骄傲地说，“如果我们允许，它可以一口把斯蒂克太太的狗吃掉，埃德加也不例外。”
　　“还有斯蒂克太太，”安妮说，“他们家的人我一点都不喜欢。”
　　早餐吃得很安静，因为范妮婶婶不在，但昆廷叔叔在。昆廷叔叔在吃早餐时满脸严肃，一直怒视着乔治和其他人，他本来就不太平易近人。见此情景，安妮甚至觉得要是他们没来科林庄园该多好！但是，当她想到接下来的玩耍时间，她的情绪就高涨起来。也许他们会去野餐吧，可能会在海滩上，也有可能在科林岛上，并且没有昆廷叔叔在场破坏他们的好心情。
　　斯蒂克太太撤下粥盘，端上了熏肉，她把盘子摔在桌子上。
　　“没必要这么做吧。”昆廷叔叔不耐烦地说。斯蒂克太太什么也没说，她怕昆廷叔叔，只好把下一批盘子轻轻地放下来。
　　“今天你们打算做什么？”昆廷叔叔吃完早餐后问道。这时他的心情好一点了，不喜欢看到周围的人都阴沉着脸。
　　“我们想出去野餐，”乔治热切地说，“我问过妈妈了，她说，如果斯蒂克太太给我们做三明治，我们就可以去。”
　　“哦，我想她是不会尽心尽力的。”昆廷叔叔说，试图开个小玩笑，孩子们都礼貌地笑了笑，“但你可以问问她。”
　　片刻的沉默。没有人愿意请斯蒂克太太做三明治。
　　“我真希望她没有带臭鬼来，”乔治沮丧地说，“如果它不在，一切都会好办得多。”
　　“那是她儿子的名字吗？”昆廷叔叔吃惊地问。
　　乔治笑了：“哦，不。是她的狗。虽然这对它来说并不是一个坏名字，因为它几乎不洗澡，身上散发着刺鼻的味道。她管它叫笨笨，但我叫它臭鬼，因为它确实很臭。”
　　“我认为这不是一个好名字。”她爸爸说道。其他人已经大笑起来。
　　“是的，确实算不上好名字，”乔治说，“但话说回来，它本来就不是只好狗。”
　　最后，还是在范妮婶婶见到斯蒂克太太的时候，才把做三明治的事安排妥当。斯蒂克太太上楼去见范妮婶婶时，范妮婶婶正在床上吃早餐，她同意做三明治，尽管很勉强。
　　“我没想到又来了三个孩子。”她生气地说。
　　“我告诉过你他们要来，斯蒂克太太，”范妮婶婶耐心地说，“只是没想到他们来了，我自己却生病了。如果我身体好，我就能给他们做三明治之类的事情。在我病好之前，只能麻烦你照顾他们了。
　　明天我的病可能就好了。让孩子们好好地玩一个星期左右，然后，如果我的病还不好，我相信他们都会出手相助的，先让他们好好玩几天吧。”
　　孩子们带着各自的三明治出发了。在路上，他们遇到了埃德加，他看上去和往常一样又愚蠢又狡猾，“你们为什么不让我和你们一起去呢？”他说，“我们去那个岛吧？我很熟悉那个岛，真的。”
　　“不，你不熟悉。”乔治立刻反驳道，“你根本不了解那个岛，我绝不会带你去的。那是我的岛，知道吗？哦，是我们的岛。它属于我们四个人，还有蒂米。我们绝不允许你去！”
　　“那不是你们的岛，”埃德加说，“你在说谎！”
　　“没人听你胡说八道，”乔治轻蔑地说，“咱们走！我们不应该把时间浪费在跟埃德加说话上。”
　　他们丢下他走了，埃德加一脸愠怒。当他觉得他们走远了的时候，他就高声唱起来：“乔治-珀治，布丁和派，她知道如何说谎！
　　乔治-珀治，布丁和派！”
　　朱利安要回去教训粗鲁无礼的埃德加，但乔治把他拉了回来。“他会去他妈妈那里告状，如果她不干了，那就没有人来帮助妈妈了，”她说，“我只好忍耐。不过，我们得想个办法把面子找回来。讨厌的东西！我讨厌他满是粉刺的鼻子和那双眯缝眼儿。”
　　“汪！”蒂米激动地叫了一声。
　　“蒂米说它讨厌臭鬼的尾巴和愚蠢的小耳朵。”乔治解释道，他们都笑了，这让他们的心情好了许多。他们很快就听不见埃德加愚蠢的歌声了，已经把他完全抛在了脑后。
　　“我们去看看你的船修好了没有，”朱利安说，“也许我们可以划船重游可爱的科林岛。”
Chapter Three A NASTY SHOCK
Chapter Three A NASTY SHOCK
　　GEORGE'S boat was almost ready, but not quite. It was having a last coat of paint on it. It lookedvery gay, for George had chosen a bright red paint, and the oars were painted red too.
　　"Oh, can't we possibly have it this afternoon?" said George to Jim the boatman.
　　He shook his head.
　　"No, Master George," he said, "not unless you all want to be messed up with red paint. It'll be drytomorrow, but not before."
　　It always made the others smile to hear the boatmen and fishermen call Georgina "Master George."The local people all knew how badly she wanted to be a boy, and they knew, too, how plucky andstraightforward she was, so they laughed to one another and said: "Well, they reckoned she behavedlike a boy, and if she wanted to be called "Master George" instead of"Miss Georgina", she deserved it!"
　　So Georgina was Master George, and enjoyed strutting about in her jeans and jersey on the beach,using her boat as well as any fisher-boy, and swimming faster than them all.
　　"We'll go to the island tomorrow then," said Julian. "We'll just picnic on the beach today. Then we'llgo for a walk."
　　So they picnicked on the sands with Timothy sharing more than half their lunch. The sandwicheswere not very nice. The bread was too stale; there was not enough butter inside, and they were far toothick. But Timothy didn't mind. He gobbled up as many as he could, his tail wagging so hard that itsent sand over everyone.
　　11
　　"Timothy, do take your tail out of the sand if you want to wag it," said Julian, getting sand all overhis hair for the fourth time. Timmy wagged his tail hard again, and sent another shower over him.
　　Everyone laughed.
　　"Let's go for a walk now," said Dick, jumping up. "My legs could do with some good exercise.
　　Where shall we go?"
　　"We'll walk along the cliff-top, where we can see the island all the time, shall we?" said Anne.
　　"George, is the old wreck still there?"
　　George nodded. The children had once had a most exciting time with an old wreck that had lain at thebottom of the sea. A great storm had lifted it up and set it firmly on the rocks. They had been able toexplore the wreck then, and had found a map of the castle in it, with instructions as to where hiddentreasure was to be found.
　　"Do you remember how we found that old map in the wreck, and how we looked for the ingots ofgold and found them?" said Julian, his eyes gleaming as he remembered it all. "Isn't the wreckbattered to pieces yet, George?"
　　"No," said George. "I don't think so. It's on the rocks on the other side of the island, you remember,so we can't see it from here. But we might have a look at it when we go on the island tomorrow.""Yes, let's," said Anne. "Poor old wreck! I guess it won't last many winters now."They walked along the cliff-top with Timothy capering ahead of them. They could see the islandeasily and the ruined castle rising up from the middle.
　　"There's the jackdaw tower," said Anne, looking. "The other tower's fallen down, hasn't it? Look atthe jackdaws circling round and round the tower, George!""Yes. They build in it every year," said George. "Don't you remember the masses of sticks roundabout the tower that the jackdaws dropped when they built their nests? We picked some up and madea fire with them once."
　　"I'd like to do that again," said Anne. "I would really. Let's do it each night if we stay a week on theisland. George, did you ask your mother?""Oh yes," said George. "She said she thought we might, but she would see.""I don't like it when grown-ups say they'll see," said Anne. "It so often means they won't let you dosomething after all, but they don't like to tell you at the time."12
　　"Well, I expect she will let us," said George. "After all, we're much older than last year. Why, Julianis in his teens already, and I soon shall be and so will Dick. Only Anne is small.""I'm not," said Anne, indignantly. "I'm as strong as you are. I can't help being younger.""Hush, hush, baby!" said Julian, patting his little sister on the back and laughing at her furious face.
　　"Hallo - look! What's that over there on the island?"He had caught sight of something as he was teasing Anne. Everyone swung round and gazed atKirrin. George gave an exclamation.
　　"Golly - a spire of smoke! Surely it's smoke! Someone's on my island.""On our island," corrected Dick. "It can't be! That smoke must come from a steamer out beyond theisland. We can't see it, that's all. But I bet the smoke comes from a steamer. We know no one can getto the island but us. They don't know the way.""If anyone's on my island," began George, looking very fierce and angry, "if anyone's on my island,I'll - I'll - I'll . . ."
　　"You'll explode and go up in smoke!" said Dick. "There - it's gone now. I'm sure it was only asteamer letting off steam or smoking hard, whatever they do."They watched Kirrin Island for some time after that, but they could see no more smoke. "If only myboat was ready!" said George, restlessly. "I'd go over this afternoon. I've a good mind to go and getmy boat, even if the paint is wet."
　　"Don't be an idiot!" said Julian. "You know what an awful row we'd get into if we go home with allour things bright red. Have a bit of sense, George."George gave up the idea. She watched for a steamer to appear at one side of the island or another, tocome into the bay, but none came.
　　"Probably anchored out there," said Dick. "Come on! Are we going to stand rooted to this spot for therest of the day?"
　　"We'd better get back home," said Julian, looking at his wrist-watch. "It's almost tea-time. I hopeyour mother is up, George. It's much nicer when she's at meals.""Oh, I expect she will be," said George. "Come on, then let's go back!"They turned to go back. They watched Kirrin Island as they walked, but all they could see wasjackdaws or gulls in the sky above it. No more spires of smoke appeared. It must have been asteamer!
　　13
　　"All the same, I'm going over tomorrow to have a look," said George, firmly. "If any trippers arevisiting my island I'll turn them off."
　　"Our island," said Dick. "George, I wish you'd remember you said you'd share it with us.""Well - I did share it out with you," said George, "but I can't help feeling it's still my island.
　　Come on! I'm getting hungry."
　　They came back at last to Kirrin Cottage. They went into the hall, and then into the sitting-room.
　　To their great surprise Edgar was there, reading one of Julian's books.
　　"What are you doing here?" said Julian. "And who told you you could borrow my book?""I'm not doing any harm," said Edgar. "If I want to have a quiet read, why shouldn't I?""You wait till my Father comes in and finds you lolling about here," said George. "My goodness, ifyou'd gone into his study, you'd have been sorry.""I've been in there," said Edgar, surprisingly. "I've seen those funny instruments he's working with.""How dare you!" said George, going white with rage "Why, even we are not allowed to go into myFather'; study. As for touching his things - well!"Julian eyed Edgar curiously. He could not imagine why the boy should suddenly be so insolent.
　　"Where's your father, George?" he said. "I think we had better get him to deal with Edgar. He mustbe mad."
　　"Call him if you like," said Edgar, still lolling in the chair, and flicking over the pages of Julian'sbook in a most irritating way. "He won't come.""What do you mean?" said George, feeling suddenly scared. "Where's my mother?""Call her too, if you like," said the boy, looking sly. "Go on! Call her."The children suddenly felt afraid. What did Edgar mean? George flew upstairs to her mother's room,shouting loudly.
　　"Mother! Mother! Where are you?"
　　But her mother's bed was empty. It had not been made - but it was empty. George flew into all theother bedrooms, shouting desperately: "Mother! Mother! Father! Where are you?"But there was no answer. George ran downstairs, her face very white. Edgar grinned up at her.
　　"What did I tell you?" he said. "I said you could call all you liked, but they wouldn't come.""Where are they?" demanded George. "Tell me at once!""Find out yourself," said Edgar.
　　14
　　There was a resounding slap, and Edgar leapt to his feet, holding his left cheek with his hand.
　　George had flown at him and dealt him the hardest smack she could. Edgar lifted his hand to slap herback, but Julian stood in front.
　　"You're not fighting George," he said. "She's a girl. If you want a fight, I'll take you on.""I won't be a girl; I'm a boy!" shouted George, trying to push Julian away. "I'll fight Edgar, and I'llbeat him, you see if I don't."
　　But Julian kept her off. Edgar began to edge towards the doorway, but he found Dick there.
　　"One minute," said Dick. "Before you go - where are our uncle and aunt?""Gr-r-r-r-r-r-r," suddenly said Timothy, in such a threatening voice that Edgar stared at him in fright.
　　The dog had bared his great teeth, and had put up the hackles on his neck. He looked veryfrightening.
　　"Hold that dog!" said Edgar, his voice trembling. "He looks as if he's going to spring at me."Julian put his hand on Tim's collar. "Quiet, Tim!" he said. "Now, Edgar, tell us what we want toknow, and tell us quickly, or you'll be sorry.""Well, there isn't much to tell," said Edgar, keeping his eye on Timothy. He shot a look at George andwent on. "Your mother was suddenly taken very ill - with a terrible pain here - and they got thedoctor and they've taken her away to hospital, and your father went with her. That's all!"George sat down on the sofa, looking paler still and rather sick.
　　"Oh!" she said. "Poor Mother! I wish I hadn't gone out today. Oh dear - how can we find out what'shappened?"
　　Edgar had slipped out of the room, shutting the door behind him so that Timmy should not follow.
　　The kitchen door was slammed, too. The children stared at one another, feeling sorry and dismayed.
　　Poor George! Poor Aunt Fanny!
　　"There must be a note somewhere," said Julian, and looked round the room. He saw a letter stuck intothe rim of the big mirror there, addressed to George. He gave it to her. It was from George's father. ,"Read it, quickly," said Anne. "Oh dear - this is really a horrid beginning to our holidays here!"
3.一个令人震惊的坏消息
　　一个令人震惊的坏消息
　　乔治的船差不多修好了，但还需要涂最后一层油漆。它看上去很漂亮，因为乔治选了一种鲜红色的油漆，就连桨也被涂成了红色。
　　“哦，我们今天下午能开船吗？”乔治问船夫吉姆。
　　他摇了摇头。
　　“不能，乔治少爷，”他说，“如果你们不想弄一身漆，就不要开船。明天油漆才能干。”
　　听到船夫和渔夫们称乔治为“乔治少爷”，其他人都笑了。当地人都知道她是多么想当男孩，知道她是多么勇敢和直率，孩子们调侃道：“他们觉得她言谈举止都跟男孩一样，喜欢被称为‘乔治少爷’而不是‘乔治娜小姐’，名副其实！”
　　因此乔治就成了乔治少爷，她喜欢穿着牛仔裤和运动衫在海滩上大摇大摆地走。她和任何一个渔夫家的孩子一样，喜欢摆弄船，游泳的速度比他们还快。
　　“那我们明天去岛上吧，”朱利安说，“今天我们就在海滩上野餐，然后去散步。”
　　于是他们在海滩上野餐，他们一大半的午餐都让蒂米吃了。三明治不太好吃，面包也不新鲜，里面没有足够的黄油，并且切得太厚了。但蒂米不介意，它狼吞虎咽，尾巴拼命地摇着，把所有的人都弄得浑身是沙子。
　　“蒂米，如果你想摇尾巴的话，一定不要把尾巴放沙子里。”朱利安说，这已经是它第四次把沙子扬在他的头上了。蒂米又使劲摇了摇尾巴，又把沙子扬在他头上，大家都笑了。
　　“我们现在去散步吧，”迪克说着，跳了起来，“我现在可以做任何运动，我们去哪儿？”
　　“我们沿着悬崖顶上走，在那里我们可以随时看到岛上的一切，怎么样？”安妮说，“乔治，那艘破船还在吗？”
　　乔治点点头。一艘沉在海底的旧船残骸曾经给他们带来过一段最激动人心的时光。一场大风暴把它掀了起来，牢牢地压在礁石上。他们这才有机会去探索沉船，并在里面找到了一幅城堡地图，上面标有藏宝的地点。
　　“你还记得我们是怎么在沉船里找到那张古老的地图的吗？你还记得我们是怎么找到那些金锭的吗？”朱利安说道。想起这一切，他的眼睛闪闪发光，“乔治，沉船还没被撞成碎片吧？”
　　“没有，”乔治说，“我想不会的。你一定还记得沉船在小岛另一边的礁石上，所以我们没办法从这里看到它。但明天我们去岛上的时候，可以去看看它。”
　　“对，我们去看看。”安妮说，“可怜的沉船！我想它很快就要散架了。”
　　他们在悬崖顶上走着，蒂米在他们前面蹦蹦跳跳。岛上的景物一目了然，废弃的城堡在岛中央矗立着。
　　“那是寒鸦塔，”安妮说，“另一座塔倒了，是吗？乔治，看那些在塔周围飞来飞去的寒鸦！”
　　“是的。它们每年都在里面搭窝，”乔治说，“你还记得寒鸦在筑巢时掉在塔周围的那堆树枝吗？我们捡了一些，用它们生火了。”
　　“我想再玩一次，”安妮说，“我好想玩。如果我们在岛上待一个星期，那每天晚上都可以生火。乔治，你问过你妈妈了吗？”
　　“哦，问过了，”乔治说，“她说她认为我们可以去岛上玩，但她又说到时候再说。”
　　“我不喜欢大人们说‘再说’，”安妮说，“这通常意味着他们不会让你做某件事，只是他们不想当时就告诉你。”
　　“我想她会同意的，”乔治说，“毕竟我们比去年长大了一岁。你看，朱利安都13岁了，我和迪克很快也13岁了，只有安妮很小。”
　　“我不小！”安妮气愤地说，“我和你们一样强壮，我才不小呢。”
　　“嘘，嘘，宝贝！”朱利安拍着妹妹的后背说道，望着她那张愤怒的脸大笑起来。“喂！岛那边是什么？”
　　他在戏弄安妮时看见了什么东西。大家都转过身来，凝望着科林岛。乔治尖叫一声。
　　“天哪！是烟！肯定有人在我的岛上。”
　　“在我们的岛上，”迪克纠正道，“不可能！那烟一定是从岛那边的汽船上冒出来的。我们看不见汽船，仅此而已。但我敢打赌，烟是从汽船上冒出来的。除了我们没有人能到岛上去，他们不知道路。”
　　“如果有人登上我的岛，”乔治说，看上去非常愤怒，“如果有人登上我们的岛，我就，我就……”
　　“你就大发雷霆！”迪克说，“看，现在没有烟了。我敢肯定，这不过是一艘汽船在释放蒸汽。”
　　在那之后，他们又注视了科林岛一段时间，但再也看不见烟了，“要是我的船修好就好了！”乔治烦躁地说，“我今天下午就过去。我要用我的船，即使油漆还没干。”
　　“别傻了！”朱利安说，“你想想，如果我们都弄一身通红的油漆回家，肯定会挨骂的。长点心吧，乔治。”
　　于是乔治放弃了这个想法。她等着汽船出现在岛的这边或那一边，但是汽船没有出现。
　　“可能在那边抛锚了，”迪克说，“走吧！难道我们今天就一直傻站在这里吗？”
　　“我们最好回家，”朱利安看着手表说，“到该喝下午茶的时间了。但愿你妈妈起床了，乔治。吃饭的时候有她在场会好一些。”
　　“哦，我想她会的，”乔治说，“走吧，我们回去吧！”
　　他们转身开始往回走，一边走，一边望着科林岛，但他们能看到的只有寒鸦或海鸥，再也没有一缕烟出现，刚刚那一定是一艘汽船！
　　“不管怎样，明天我要去看一看，”乔治坚定地说，“如果有人来我的岛，我就把他们赶走。”
　　“我们的岛，”迪克说，“乔治，我希望你记得你说过要和我们一起分享科林岛的。”
　　“嗯，我确实说过，”乔治说，“但我情不自禁地觉得它还是我的岛。走吧！我饿了。”
　　他们回到了科林庄园，进入大厅，然后走进起居室。让他们大吃一惊的是，埃德加竟然在那儿，正在读朱利安的一本书。
　　“你在这儿干什么？”朱利安问道，“谁告诉你可以翻我的书？”
　　“我没做什么坏事，”埃德加说，“我想安静地读读书，这有什么不好呢？”
　　“天哪，如果我爸爸发现你在这儿闲荡，”乔治说，“如果你去他的书房，你就惹出大麻烦了。”
　　“我去过他的书房了，”埃德加惊讶地说，“我还看了他用的那些好玩的乐器。”
　　“你真是胆大包天！”乔治气得脸色发白，“连我们都不许进入我爸爸的书房，更不要说动他的东西了！”
　　朱利安好奇地打量着埃德加，他无法想象为什么这个男孩会突然变得如此傲慢无礼。
　　“乔治，你爸爸在哪儿？”朱利安说，“我想我们最好让他去对付埃德加，他一定是疯了。”
　　“如果你愿意，就给他打电话吧，”埃德加仍然懒洋洋地坐在椅子上说道，用挑衅的方式翻看朱利安的书，“不过，他不会来了。”
　　“你是什么意思？”乔治说着，突然感到一种莫名的恐惧，“我妈妈在哪里？”
　　“如果你愿意，就给她打电话吧。”埃德加狡黠地说道，“打吧！”
　　孩子们突然感到害怕。埃德加是什么意思呢？乔治飞快地跑到楼上她妈妈的房间里，大声喊叫着：
　　“妈妈！妈妈！你在哪儿？”
　　床是空的，虽然被子没有叠，但床是空的。乔治跑进所有的卧室，绝望地喊道：“妈妈！妈妈！爸爸！你们在哪儿？”
　　但没有人回答。乔治跑下楼，脸色煞白。埃德加冲她咧嘴一笑。
　　“我跟你说什么了？”他说，“我说过你可以随便打电话，但他们不会来的。”
　　“他们在哪儿？”乔治追问道，“快告诉我！”
　　“你自己去找吧。”埃德加说。
　　“啪！”乔治给了埃德加一记响亮的耳光，埃德加跳了起来，用手托着左脸颊。埃德加想还手，但朱利安站到了乔治前面。
　　“不要和乔治打架，”他说，“她是一个女孩。如果你想打架，我来奉陪。”
　　“我不当女孩，我要做男孩！”乔治喊道，想把朱利安推开，“我要跟埃德加打，我要揍他。”
　　但朱利安不让她靠近。埃德加开始向门口溜去，但他发现迪克在那儿。
　　“等等，”迪克说，“在你走之前，说出我们的叔叔和婶婶在哪儿。”
　　“汪、汪、汪！”蒂米突然叫了起来，那叫声太吓人了，埃德加惊恐地盯着它。蒂米龇出了大牙，脖子上的毛竖了起来，让人看了毛骨悚然。
　　“把狗看住！”埃德加声音颤抖地说道，“它好像要向我扑来了。”
　　朱利安抓住蒂米的项圈，“安静，蒂米！”他说，“喂，埃德加，把我们想知道的告诉我们，赶快告诉我们，否则你会后悔的。”
　　“其实没什么可告诉的，”埃德加紧盯着蒂米说道。他看了一眼乔治，接着说，“你妈妈突然得了重病——这里疼得厉害——他们请了医生，把她送到医院去了，你爸爸和她一起去了。就是这样！”
　　乔治的脸色更加苍白了，她一屁股瘫坐在沙发上，好像生了病一样。
　　“哦！”她说，“可怜的妈妈！我真希望今天没出去。天哪，怎么会发生这样的事情？”
　　埃德加溜出了房间，随手关上了门，这样蒂米就不会追着咬他了，他把厨房的门也关上了。孩子们面面相觑，感到既难过又沮丧。可怜的乔治！可怜的范妮婶婶！
　　“他们一定留了纸条。”朱利安说着，环视了一下房间。他看见一面大镜子的边缘插着一封写给乔治的信。他把信递给乔治，这封信是昆廷叔叔写的。
　　“快读，”安妮说，“天哪，假期刚开始就这么不顺！”
Chapter Four A FEW LITTLE UPSETS
Chapter Four A FEW LITTLE UPSETS
　　GEORGE read the letter out loud. It was not very long, and had evidently been written in a greathurry.
　　DEAR GEORGE,
　　Your mother has been taken very ill. I am going with her to the hospital. I shall not leave her till sheis getting better. That may be in a few days' time, or in a week's time. I will telephone you each day atnine o'clock in the morning to tell you how she is. Mrs. Stick will look after you all. Try to manageall right till I come back.
　　Your loving
　　FATHER
　　"Oh dear!" said Anne, knowing how dreadful George must feel. George loved her mother dearly, andfor once in a way the girl had tears in her eyes. George never cried - but it was terrible to come homeand find her mother gone like this. And Father too! No one there but Mrs. Stick and Edgar.
　　"I can't bear Mother going like this," sobbed George suddenly, and buried her head in a cushion.
　　"She - she might never come back."
　　"Don't be silly, George," said Julian, sitting down and putting his arm round her. "Of course she will.
　　Why shouldn't she? Didn't your father say he was staying with her till she was getting better- and that would be probably in a few days" time, Cheer up, George! It isn't like you to give way likethis."
　　"But I didn't say good-bye," sobbed poor George. "And I made her ask Mrs. Stick for the sandwiches,instead of me. I want to go and find Mother and see how she is myself.""You don't know where they've taken her, and if you did, they wouldn't let you in," said Dick, gently.
　　"Let's have some tea. We shall all feel better after that.""I couldn't eat anything," said George, fiercely. Timothy pushed his nose into her hands, and tried tolick them. They were under her buried face. The dog whined a little.
　　"Poor Timmy! He can't understand," said Anne. "He's awfully upset because you are unhappy,George."
　　16
　　That made George sit up. She rubbed her hands over her eyes, and let Timmy lick the wet tears offthem. He looked surprised at the salty taste. He tried to get on to George's knee.
　　"Silly Timmy!" said George, in a more ordinary voice. "Don't be upset. I just got a shock, that's all!
　　I'm better now, Timmy. Don't whine like that, silly! I'm all right. I'm not hurt."But Timothy felt certain George was really hurt or injured in some way to cry like that, and he keptwhining, and pawing at George, and trying to get on to her knee.
　　Julian opened the door. "I'm going to tell Mrs. Stick we want our tea," he said, and went out. Theothers thought he was rather brave to face Mrs. Stick.
　　Julian went to the kitchen door and opened it. Edgar was sitting there, one side of his face scarlet,where George had slapped it. Mrs. Stick was there, looking grim,"If that girl slaps my Edgar again I'll be after her," she said, threateningly.
　　"Edgar deserved what he got," said Julian, "Can we have some tea, please?""I've a good mind to get you none," said Mrs. Stick. Her dog started up from its corner and growledat Julian. "That's right, Tinker! You growl at folks that slap Edgar, said Mrs. Stick.
　　Julian was not in the least afraid of Tinker. "If you are not going to get us any tea, I'll get it myself,"said the boy. "Where is the bread, and where are the cakes?"Mrs. Stick stared at Julian, and the boy looked back at her steadfastly. He thought she was a mostunpleasant woman, and he certainly was not going to allow her to get the better of him. He wished hecould tell her to go - but he had a feeling that she wouldn't, so it would be a waste of his breath.
　　Mrs. Stick dropped her eyes first. "I'll get your tea," she said, "but if I've any nonsense from you I'llget you no other meals."
　　"And if I have any nonsense from you I shall go to the police," said Julian, unexpectedly. He hadn'tmeant to say that. It came out quite suddenly, but it had a surprising effect on Mrs. Stick.
　　She looked startled and alarmed.
　　"Now, there's no call to be nasty," she said in a much more polite voice. "We've all had a bit of ashock, and we're upset, like - I'll get you your tea right now."Julian went out. He wondered why his sudden threat of going to the police had made Mrs. Stick somuch more polite. Perhaps she was afraid the police would get on to his Uncle Quentin and"he would come tearing back. Uncle Quentin wouldn't care for a hundred Mrs. Sticks!
　　He went back to the others. "Tea's coming," he said. "So cheer up, everyone!"17
　　It wasn't a very cheerful company that sat down to the tea Mrs. Stick brought in. George was nowfeeling ashamed of her tears. Anne was still upset. Dick tried to make a few silly jokes to cheereveryone up, but they fell so flat that he soon gave it up. Julian was grave and helpful, suddenly verygrown-up.
　　Timothy sat close beside George, his head on her knee. "I do wish I had a dog who loved me likethat," thought Anne. Timmy kept gazing up at George out of big brown devoted eyes. He had no eyesor ears for anyone but his little mistress now she was sad.
　　Nobody noticed what they had for tea, but all the same it did them good, and they felt better after it.
　　They didn't like to go out to the beach afterwards in case the telephone bell rang, and there was newsof George's mother. So they sat about in the garden, keeping an ear open for the telephone.
　　From the kitchen came a song.
　　"Georgie-porgie, pudding and pie,
　　Sat herself down and had a good cry,
　　Georgie-porgie . . ."
　　Julian got up. He went to the kitchen window and looked in. Edgar was there alone.
　　"Come on out here, Edgar!" said Julian, in a grim voice. I'll teach you to sing another song.
　　Come along!"
　　Edgar didn't stir. "Can't I sing if I want to?" he said.
　　"Oh yes," said Julian, "but not that song. I'll teach you another. Come along out!""No fear," said Edgar. "You want to fight me.""Yes, I do," said Julian. "I think a little bit of good honest fighting would be better for you than sittingsinging nasty little songs about a girl who is miserable. Are you coming out? Or shall I come in andfetch you?"
　　"Ma!" called Edgar, suddenly feeling panicky. "Ma! Where are you?"Julian suddenly reached a long arm in at the window, caught hold of Edgar's over-long nose, andpulled it so hard that Edgar yelled in pain.
　　"Led go! Led go! You're hurding me! Led go by dose!"Mrs. Stick came hurrying into the kitchen. She gave a scream when she saw what Julian was doing.
　　She flew at him. Julian withdrew his arm, and stood outside the window.
　　18
　　"How dare you!" yelled Mrs. Stick. "First that girl slaps Edgar, and then you pull his nose!
　　What's the matter with you all?"
　　"Nothing," said Julian, pleasantly; "but there's an awful lot wrong with Edgar, Mrs. Stick. We feel wejust must put it right. It should be your job, of course, but you don't seem to have done it.""You're downright insolent," said Mrs. Stick, outraged and furious.
　　"Yes, I dare say I am," said Julian. "It's just the effect Edgar has on me. Stinker has the same effect.""Stinker!" cried Mrs. Stick, getting angrier still. "That's not my dog's name, and well you know it.""Well, it really ought to be," said Julian, strolling off. "Give him a bath, and maybe we'll call himTinker instead."
　　Leaving Mrs. Stick muttering in fury, he went back to the others. They stared at him curiously.
　　He somehow seemed a different Julian - a grim and determined Julian, a very grown-up Julian, arather frightening Julian.
　　"I'm afraid the fat's in the fire now," said Julian, sitting down on the grass. "I pulled old Edgar's nosenearly off his fat face, and Ma saw me doing it. I guess it's open warfare now! We shan't have a verymerry time from now on. I doubt if we'll get any meals.""We'll get them ourselves then," said George. "I hate Mrs. Stick. I wish Joanna would come back. Ihate that horrid Edgar too, and that awful Stinker.""Look - there is Stinker!" suddenly said Dick, putting out his hand to catch Timothy, who had risenwith a growl. But Timmy shook off his hand and leapt across the grass at once. Stinker gave a woefulhowl and tried to escape. But Timothy had him by the neck and was shaking him like a rat.
　　Mrs. Stick appeared with a stick and lashed out, not seeming to mind which dog she hit. Julian rushedfor the hose again. Edgar skipped indoors at once, remembering what had happened to him before.
　　The water gushed out, and Timothy gave a gasp and let go the howling mongrel he held in his teeth.
　　Stinker at once hurled himself on Mrs. Stick, and tried to hide in her skirts trembling with terror.
　　19
　　"I'll poison that dog of yours!" said Mrs. Stick, furiously, to George. "Always setting on to mine.
　　You look out or I'll poison him."
　　She disappeared indoors, and the four children went and sat down again. George looked reallyalarmed. "Do you suppose she really might try to poison Timmy?" she asked Julian, in a scaredvoice.
　　"She's a nasty bit of work," said Julian, in a low tone. "I think it would be just as well to keep oldTimmy close by us, day and night, and only to feed him ourselves, from our own plates."George pulled Timothy to her, horrified at the thought that anyone might want to poison him.
　　But Mrs. Stick really was awful - she might do anything like that, George thought. How she wishedher father and mother were back! It was horrid to be on their own, like this.
　　The telephone bell suddenly shrilled out and made everyone jump. They all leapt to their feet, andTimmy growled. George flew indoors and lifted the receiver. She heard her father's voice, and herheart began to beat fast.
　　"Is that you, George?" said her father. "Are you all right? I hadn't time to stay and tell youeverything."
　　"Father - what about Mother? Tell me quick - how is she?" said George.
　　"We shan't know till the day after next," said her father. "I'll telephone tomorrow morning and thenthe next morning too. I shan't come back till I know she's better.""Oh Father - it's awful without you and Mother," said poor George. "Mrs. Stick is so horrid.""Now, George," said her father, rather impatiently, "surely you children can see to yourselves andmake do with Mrs. Stick till I get back! Don't worry me about such things now. I've enough worry asit is."
　　"When will you be back, do you think?" said George. "Can I come and see Mother?""No," said her father. "Not for at least two weeks, they say. I'll be back as soon as I can. But I'm notgoing to leave your Mother now. She needs me. Good-bye and be good, all of you."George put back the receiver. She turned to face the others. "Shan't know about Mother till the dayafter next," she said. "And we've got to put up with Mrs. Stick till Father comes back - and goodnessknows when that will be! It's awful, isn't it?"
4.雪上加霜
　　雪上加霜
　　乔治大声地读信。信写得不长，显然是在极其匆忙的情况下写的。
　　亲爱的乔治：
　　你妈妈的病加重了，我和她一起去医院。在她好转之前，我不会离开她，这可能需要几天或一周的时间。我每天早上九点给你打电话，告知你妈妈的病情。斯蒂克太太会照顾你们的。在我回来之前，设法把一切事情办好。
　　爱你的爸爸
　　“哦，天哪！”安妮知道乔治的心情一定很糟。乔治非常爱她的妈妈，她的眼里充满了泪水，她从来没有哭过，但回家后发现爸爸妈妈不见了，家里只有斯蒂克太太和埃德加，这太可怕了！
　　“妈妈这样走了，我真受不了，”乔治突然抽泣起来，把头埋在褥子里，“她……她可能再也不会回来了。”
　　“别说傻话，乔治，”朱利安说着坐了下来，搂住她，“她当然会回来的，她为什么不回来呢？你爸爸不是说过要和她在一起，直到她好起来吗？也许过几天就回来了。乔治，振作起来！向困难低头不是你的性格。”
　　“但我们都没有告别。”可怜的乔治啜泣着，“我不愿搭理斯蒂克太太，所以才让妈妈跟她要三明治。我想去找妈妈，亲眼看看她怎么样了。”
　　“你不知道他们把她带到哪里去了，就算你找到她了，他们也不会让你进去的，”迪克温和地说，“我们吃点茶点吧，这样会感觉好些。”
　　“我什么都吃不下。”乔治难过地说。蒂米把鼻子伸进她的手里，想舔她的手，并发出了一声哀号。
　　“可怜的蒂米！它虽然不明白发生了什么，”安妮说，“但因为你不开心，所以它也非常难过，乔治。”
　　听到安妮这么说，乔治坐了起来。她用手揉了揉眼睛，让蒂米舔掉手上的眼泪。它对那咸咸的味道感到惊讶，试图爬到乔治的膝盖上。
　　“愚蠢的蒂米！”乔治平静地说，“不要担心。我不过是受到点惊吓，现在没事了，蒂米。别那样哀号了，傻瓜！我一切都好，我没有受伤。”
　　但是蒂米确信乔治真的是受伤了，所以才哭得那么伤心，它不停地哀号着，用爪子抓挠着乔治，试图爬到她的膝盖上去。
　　朱利安打开门，“我要告诉斯蒂克太太我们要吃茶点。”他说着走了出去。其他人认为他很勇敢，敢于面对斯蒂克太太。
　　朱利安来到厨房门口。埃德加坐在那儿，一侧脸通红，那是乔治掴的。斯蒂克太太也在那儿，表情严峻。
　　“如果那个女孩再打我的埃德加，我绝不轻饶她。”她威胁道。“埃德加欠揍，”朱利安说，“我们能吃点茶点吗？”
　　“我不想给你！”斯蒂克太太说。她的狗从角落里跳了起来，对朱利安咆哮着，“对，笨笨！就是他打了埃德加的耳光，对他咆哮吧。”斯蒂克太太说。
　　朱利安一点也不害怕臭鬼。“如果你不给我们端茶点，我就自己动手，”男孩说，“面包在哪儿，蛋糕呢？”
　　斯蒂克太太瞪着朱利安，男孩怒目回视。他认为她是一个非常不讨人喜欢的女人，他当然不会让她占了上风。他想让她走开，但他知道她不会听他的，所以那只是白费口舌。
　　斯蒂克太太首先垂下了眼睛，“我给你端茶点来，”她说，“但如果我听到你胡言乱语，我就拒绝为你服务。”
　　“如果你再说什么废话，我就去报警。”朱利安说，这句话是随口说出的，他并不想这样说。这句话来得很突然，但对斯蒂克太太产生了意想不到的震动，她看上去很惊慌。
　　“现在，没有必要说坏话了。”她很礼貌地说道，“我们都有点震惊，并且很难过，就好像……我现在就给你们拿茶点去。”
　　朱利安走了出去。他不知道为什么他一说报警，斯蒂克太太就变得有礼貌了。也许她担心警察会去找他的叔叔昆廷，他会怒气冲冲地回到家里，对她大发雷霆。昆廷叔叔才不在乎什么斯蒂克太太呢！
　　他回到其他人中间，“茶点来了，”他说，“大家振作起来吧！”
　　大家坐下来吃斯蒂克太太端来的茶点，气氛有些凝重。乔治为自己的哭泣感到羞愧，安妮还在难过，迪克想讲几个无聊的笑话逗大家开心，但大家都不笑，于是他就放弃了。朱利安很严肃，似乎突然间长大了。
　　蒂米紧挨乔治坐着，头靠在她的膝盖上。“真希望我也有一只那样爱我的狗。”安妮想。蒂米那棕色的大眼睛里满含忠诚，它目不转睛地盯着乔治，就好像它的眼睛和耳朵只为它的小女主人而生，此刻，她很伤心。
　　没人注意到他们吃了什么茶点，但不管怎样，吃完茶点之后，他们感觉好多了。他们不想去海滩，怕错过了接听电话，他们急切地想知道乔治妈妈的病情。于是他们就坐在花园里，竖起耳朵听电话。
　　厨房里传来了歌声。
　　“乔治-珀治，布丁和派！坐下来大哭一场，乔治-珀治……”
　　朱利安站起身，走到厨房的窗户往里看，埃德加一个人在那里。
　　“出来，埃德加！”朱利安严厉地说，“我来教你唱另一首歌。过来！”
　　埃德加不动，“难道我唱歌也不行吗？”他说。
　　“行，”朱利安说，“但不是那首歌。我来教你唱另一首歌。出来！”
　　“我不敢出去，”埃德加说，“你想和我决斗。”
　　“是的，”朱利安说，“我认为，公平决斗总比坐在那儿唱一些下流的歌曲好得多，你攻击的那个小女孩正在遭受痛苦的折磨，你出来吗？要我进去把你拽出来吗？”
　　“妈！”埃德加喊道，突然感到恐慌，“妈！你在哪儿？”
　　朱利安突然伸出一只长胳膊，抓住埃德加的长鼻子用力拉，埃德加痛得大叫起来。
　　“松手！松手！太疼了！快松手！”
　　斯蒂克太太急忙跑进厨房。当她看到朱利安揪着埃德加的鼻子时，她尖叫了一声，向朱利安扑来。朱利安缩回手臂，站到窗外。
　　“你的胆子太大了！”斯蒂克太太嚷道，“先是那女孩打了埃德加一个嘴巴，现在你又拉他的鼻子！你们都在干什么？”
　　“没什么，”朱利安平静地说道，“是埃德加的毛病太多了，斯蒂克太太。我们觉得我们必须纠正他的毛病。当然，这应该是你分内的事，但你似乎并没有尽到责任。”
　　“你真是太傲慢无礼了。”斯蒂克太太怒气冲冲地说。
　　“也许吧，”朱利安说，“但这是埃德加造成的。臭鬼是他的帮凶。”
　　“臭鬼？”斯蒂克太太叫道，她更生气了，“那不是我狗的名字。”
　　“名副其实的臭鬼，”朱利安说着，慢悠悠地走开了，“给它洗个澡，也许我们可以叫它流浪狗。”
　　他丢下斯蒂克太太独自在那儿怒气冲冲地咕哝着，回到同伴们那里去了。他们好奇地盯着他。不知何故，他似乎变成了另一个朱利安——一个冷酷而坚定的朱利安，一个非常成熟的朱利安，一个相当可怕的朱利安。
　　朱利安坐在草地上说：“恐怕我闯祸了，我差点把埃德加的鼻子从他那张胖脸上扯下来，斯蒂克太太目睹了这一切。我想现在是公开的战争了！从现在起，我们不会有好日子过了，我甚至怀疑我们还能否有饭吃。”
　　“那我们就自己去拿，”乔治说，“我讨厌斯蒂克太太，真希望乔安娜能回来。我也讨厌那个烦人的埃德加，还有那只脏兮兮的狗。”
　　“看！臭鬼在那儿！”迪克突然说，同时伸手抓住吼叫着站立起身的蒂米。但是蒂米挣脱了他的手，立刻蹿过草地。臭鬼凄惨地叫了一声，想逃跑。但蒂米已经咬住了它的脖子，像猫抓住老鼠一样摇动着它。
　　斯蒂克太太拿着一根棍子冲了出来，她似乎并不在意打了哪只狗；朱利安又冲向水管，埃德加立刻跑到屋里去，因为他还没有忘记上次发生的事。
　　水流喷了出来，蒂米喘息着，松开了号叫着的臭鬼。臭鬼立刻奔向斯蒂克太太，它吓得浑身发抖，想躲到她的裙子里去。
　　“我要毒死你那只狗！”斯蒂克太太气急败坏地对乔治说，“它总是欺负我的狗。你当心点，不然我就毒死它。”
　　说完，她就回屋去了。四个孩子又坐了下来，乔治看起来很惊慌，“她真的会毒死蒂米吗？”她担心地问朱利安。
　　“她是个讨厌的家伙，”朱利安低声说，“让蒂米日夜留在我们身边，用我们自己餐盘里的食物喂它。”
　　乔治把蒂米拉到她身边，一想到有人要毒死它，她就害怕。斯蒂克太太真的什么事都做得出来。她多么希望她的爸爸妈妈快回来啊！像这样丢下他们自己生活真是太可怕了。
　　突然电话铃声响了，大家都跳了起来，蒂米吼叫了一声。乔治飞身进屋拿起了话筒，听到了爸爸的声音，她的心开始怦怦直跳。
　　“是乔治吗？”爸爸说，“你还好吗？我没有时间来告诉你一切。”
　　“爸爸，我妈妈呢？快告诉我她怎么样了？”乔治问道。
　　“我们后天才能知道，”爸爸说，“我明天早上再打电话，后天早上也打。等你妈妈好些了我就回去。”
　　“噢，爸爸——没有你和妈妈，真是太糟糕了，”可怜的乔治说，“斯蒂克太太太可怕了！”
　　“好了，好了，乔治，”爸爸不耐烦地说，“你们这些孩子要与斯蒂克太太好好相处，等我回来！别为这些事烦我，我的烦心事已经够多的了。”
　　“您什么时候回来？”乔治说，“我能去看妈妈吗？”
　　“不，”爸爸说，“医生说，至少两周内不许探视。我会尽快回去的，但我现在不能离开你妈妈，她需要我。再见，祝你们一切顺利。”
　　乔治把话筒放回原处，转过身来面对其他人，“后天我们才会知道妈妈的病情，”她说，“我们要忍受斯蒂克太太，直到爸爸回来。
　　天知道那是什么时候！这太可怕了，不是吗？”
Chapter Five IN THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT
Chapter Five IN THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT
　　MRS. STICK was in such a bad temper that evening that there was no supper at all. Julian went toask about some, but he found the kitchen door locked.
　　He went back to the others with a gloomy face, for they were all hungry. "She's locked the door,"he said. "She really is a dreadful creature. I don't believe we'll get any supper tonight.""We'll have to wait till she goes to bed," said George. "We'll go down and hunt in the larder then, andsee what we can find."
　　They went to bed hungry. Julian listened for Mrs. Stick and Edgar to go to bed, too. When he heardthem going upstairs, and was sure their doors had shut, he slipped down into the kitchen. It was darkthere, and Julian was just about to put on the light when he heard the sound of someone breathingheavily. He wondered who it could be. Was it Stinker? No - it couldn't be the dog. It sounded like ahuman being.
　　Julian stood there, his hand over the light switch, puzzled and a little scared. It couldn't be a burglar,because burglars don't go to sleep in the house they have come to rob. It couldn't be Mrs.
　　Stick or Edgar. Then who was it?
　　He snapped on the light. The kitchen was flooded with radiance, and Julian's eyes fastened on thefigure of a small man lying on the sofa. He was fast asleep, his mouth wide open.
　　He was not a very pleasant sight. He had not shaved for some days, and his cheeks and chin werebluish-black. He didn't seem to have washed for even longer than that, for his hands were black, andso were his finger-nails. He had untidy hair and a nose exactly like Edgar's.
　　"Must be dear Edgar's father," thought Julian to himself. "What a sight! Well, poor Edgar hadn'tmuch chance to be decent with a father and mother like his."The man snored. Julian wondered what to do. He badly wanted to go to the larder, but on the otherhand he didn't particularly want to wake up the man and have a row. He didn't see how he could turnhim out - for all he knew his aunt and uncle might have agreed to Mrs. Stick's husband coming therenow and again, though he hardly thought so.
　　Julian was very hungry. The thought of the good things in the larder made him snap off the lightagain and creep towards the larder door in the dark. He opened the door. He felt along the 21shelves. Good! - that felt like a pie of some sort. He lifted it up and sniffed. It smelt of meat. A meat-pie - good!
　　He felt along the shelf again and came to a plate on which were what he thought must be jam-tarts,for they were round and flat, and had something sticky in the middle. Well, a meat-pie and jam-tartsought to be all right for four hungry children!
　　Julian picked up the meat-pie and the dish of tarts, and made his way carefully out of the larder.
　　He pushed the door to with his foot. Then he turned to go out of the room.
　　But in the dark he went the wrong way, and by bad luck walked straight into the sofa! The dish oftarts got a sudden jerk and one of them fell off. It landed on the open mouth of the sleeping man, andwoke him up with a start.
　　"Blow!" said Julian to himself, and began to back away quietly, hoping that the man would turn overand go to sleep again. But the sticky jam-tart sliding down his chin had startled the man, and he satup with a jerk.
　　"Who's there? That you, Edgar? What are you doing down here?"Julian said nothing but sidled towards what he hoped was the door. The man leapt up and lurchedover to where he thought the light switch was. He found it and switched it on. He stared in thegreatest astonishment at Julian.
　　"What are you doing here?" he demanded.
　　"Just what I was about to ask you? said Julian, coolly. "What do you think you're doing here, sleepingin my uncle's kitchen?"
　　"I've a right to be here," said the man, in a rude voice. "My wife's cook here, isn't she? My ship's inand I'm on leave. Your uncle arranged with my wife I could come here then, see?"Julian had feared as much. How awful to have a Mr. Stick as well as a Mrs. and Master Stick in thehouse! It would be quite unbearable.
　　"I can ask my uncle about it when he telephones in the morning," said Julian. "Now get out of myway, please. I want to go upstairs."
　　"Ho!" said Mr. Stick, eyeing the meat-pie and jam-tarts that Julian was carrying. "Ho! Stealing out ofthe larder, I see! Nice goings-on I must say."Julian was not going to argue with Mr. Stick, who evidently felt that he was top-dog. "Get out of myway," he said. "I will talk to you in the morning after my uncle has telephoned."22
　　Mr. Stick didn't seem as if he was going to get out of the way at all. He stood there, a nasty little man,not much taller than Julian, a sarcastic smile on his unshaven face.
　　Julian pursed up his lips and whistled. There came a bump on the floor above. That was Timothyjumping off George's bed! Then there came the pattering of feet down the stairs, and up the kitchenpassage. Timmy was coming!
　　He smelt Mr. Stick in the doorway, put up his hackles, bared his teeth and growled. Mr. Stick hastilyremoved himself from the doorway and then neatly banged the door in the dog's face. He grinned atJulian.
　　"Now what are you going to do?" he said.
　　"Shall I tell you?" said Julian, his temper suddenly rising. "I'm going to hurl this nice juicy meat-piestraight into your grinning face!"
　　He raised his arm, and Mr. Stick ducked.
　　"Now don't you do that," he said. "I'm only pulling your leg, see? Don't you waste that nice meat-pie.
　　You can go upstairs if you want to."
　　He moved away to the sofa. Julian opened the door and Timothy bounded in growling. Mr. Stickeyed him uncomfortably.
　　"Don't you let that nasty great dog come near me," he said. "I don't like dogs.""Then I wonder you don't get rid of Stinker," said Julian. "Come here, Timmy! Leave him alone.
　　He's not worth growling at."
　　Julian went upstairs with Timothy close at his heels. The others crowded round him, wondering whathad happened, for they had heard the voices downstairs. They laughed when Julian told them how hehad nearly thrown the meat-pie at Mr. Stick.
　　"It would have served him right," said Anne, "though it would have been a great pity, because weshouldn't have been able to eat it. Well, Mrs. Stick may be simply horrible, but she can cook.
　　This pie is gorgeous."
　　The children finished all the pie and the tarts, too. Julian told them all about Mr. Stick coming onleave from his ship.
　　"Three Sticks are a lot too much," said Dick thoughtfully. "Pity we can't get rid of them all andmanage for ourselves. George, can't you possibly persuade your father tomorrow to let us get rid ofthe Sticks and look after ourselves?"
　　23
　　"I'll try," said George. "But you know what he is like - awfully difficult to argue with. But I'll try.
　　Golly, I'm sleepy now. Come on, Timmy, let's get to bed! Lie on my feet. I'm hardly going to let youout of my sight now, in case those awful Sticks poison you!"Soon the four children, now no longer hungry, were sleeping peacefully. They did not fear the Stickscoming up to their rooms, for they knew that Timmy would wake and warn them at once.
　　Timmy was the best guard they could have.
　　In the morning Mrs. Stick actually produced some sort of breakfast, which surprised the children verymuch. "Guess she knows your father will telephone, George," said Julian, "and she wants to keepherself in the right. When did he say he would "phone? Nine o'clock, wasn't it? Well, it's half-pasteight now. Let's go for a quick run down to the beach and back."So off they went, the five of them, ignoring Edgar, who stood in the back garden ready to make someof his silly faces at them. The children couldn't help thinking he must be a bit mad. He didn't behaveat all like a boy of Julian's age.
　　When they came back it was about ten minutes to nine. "We'll sit in the sitting-room till the telephonerings," said Julian. "We don't want Mrs. Stick to answer it first."But to their great dismay, as they reached the house, they heard Mrs. Stick using the telephone in thehall!
　　"Yes, sir," they heard her say, "everything is quite all right. I can manage the children, sir, even ifthey do make things a bit difficult. Yes, sir. Of course, sir. Well, sir, it's lucky my husband is home onleave from his ship, sir, because he can help me round, like, and it makes things easier.
　　Don't you worry about anything, sir, and don't you bother to come back till you're ready. I'll manageeverything."
　　George flew into the hall like a wild thing, and snatched the receiver out of Mrs. Stick's hand.
　　"Father! It's me, George! How's Mother? Tell me quick!""No worse, George," said her father's voice. "But we shan't know anything definite till tomorrowmorning. I'm glad to hear from Mrs. Stick that everything is all right. I'm very upset and worried, andI'm glad to feel I can tell your Mother that you are all right, and everything is going smoothly atKirrin Cottage."
　　"But it isn't," said George, wildly. "It isn't. It's all horrid. Can't the Sticks go and let us manage thingsby ourselves?"
　　24
　　"Good gracious me, of course not," said her father's voice, surprised and annoyed. "What can you bethinking of? I did hope, George, that you would be sensible and helpful. I must say...""You talk to him, Julian," said George, helplessly, and thrust the receiver into Julian's hand. The boyput it to his ear and spoke into the telephone in his clear voice.""Good morning, sir. This is Julian! I'm glad my aunt is no worse.""Well, she will be if she thinks things are going wrong at Kirrin Cottage," said Uncle Quentin, in anexasperated voice. "Can't you manage George and make her see reason? Good gracious, can't she putup with the Sticks for a week or two? I tell you frankly, Julian, I am not going to sack the Sticks inmy absence - I want the house ready for me to bring back your aunt. If you can't put up with them,you had better find out from your own parents if they can take you back for the rest of the holidays.
　　But George is not to go with you. She is to stay at Kirrin Cottage. That's my last word on thesubject."
　　"But, sir," began Julian, wondering how in the world he could deal properly with his hot-tempereduncle, "I must tell you that . . ."
　　There was a click at the other end of the "phone. Uncle Quentin had put down his receiver and gone.
　　There was no more to be said. Blow! Julian pursed up his mouth and looked round at the others,frowning.
　　"He's gone!" he said. "Cut me off just as I was trying to reason with him.""Serves you right!" said Mrs. Stick's harsh voice from the end of the hall. "Now you know where youstand. I'm here and I'm staying here, on your uncle's orders. And you're all going to behaveyourselves, or it'll be the worse for you."
5.在午夜
　　在午夜
　　那天晚上，斯蒂克太太气坏了，居然没有做晚饭。朱利安想去问问怎么回事，但发现厨房的门被锁上了。
　　他愁眉苦脸地回到伙伴们的身边，大家都饿了。
　　“她把门锁上了，”他说，“她真的很可怕。我想我们今晚不会有饭吃了。”
　　“等她上床睡觉以后，”乔治说，“我们就到储藏室去找吃的。”
　　孩子们都饿着肚子上床睡觉了，朱利安在听斯蒂克太太和埃德加上床睡觉的动静。当他听到两人上了楼，确信他们的门已经关上时，他溜进了厨房。那里很黑，朱利安刚要把灯打开，就听到有人喘着粗气的声音。他想知道那是谁，臭鬼吗？不，不可能是狗，听起来像人。
　　朱利安站在那里，把手放在电灯开关上，有点迷惑，还有点害怕。这不可能是窃贼，因为窃贼不会在他们来抢劫的房子里睡觉。
　　不可能是斯蒂克太太或埃德加。那么是谁呢？
　　他“啪”的一声打开了灯。厨房里亮如白昼，朱利安的眼睛紧盯着躺在沙发上的一个小个子男人。他睡得很熟，嘴巴张得很大。
　　他的长相不太好看，看起来有好几天没刮胡子了，他的脸颊和下巴都是蓝黑色的。他似乎很久没有洗澡了，因为他的手是黑的，指甲也是黑的。他的头发乱蓬蓬的，鼻子和埃德加的一模一样。
　　“一定是埃德加的父亲，”朱利安心想，“像什么样子！可怜的埃德加有这样的父亲和母亲，难怪他邋里邋遢。”
　　那个人鼾声如雷，朱利安不知道该怎么办。他很想去储藏室，但另一方面，他不想吵醒那个人，发生口角。他不知道能不能把他撵走——他的叔叔婶婶可能会同意斯蒂克太太的丈夫时不时地来这里。
　　朱利安饥肠辘辘，一想到储藏室里的好东西，他又迅速地关上灯，在黑暗中蹑手蹑脚地向储藏室走去。他打开了门，沿着架子摸索着。哈！那好像是馅饼，他举起来闻了闻，闻到了肉的香味，肉馅饼，太好了！
　　他又沿着架子继续摸索，摸到了一个盘子，上面一定是果酱馅饼，因为它们又圆又平，中间有黏糊糊的东西。太好了，肉馅饼加果酱馅饼应该够四个饥饿的孩子饱餐一顿了！
　　朱利安端着馅饼盘子，小心翼翼地走出了储藏室。他用脚把门推开，然后转身要走出房间。
　　但在黑暗中，他走错了方向，径直走向了沙发！馅饼盘子突然受到震动，其中一块掉了下去，正好落在熟睡人的嘴上，把他惊醒了。
　　“倒霉！”朱利安心想，然后开始悄悄地退回去，希望那个人能翻身再睡去。但那黏糊糊的果酱馅饼从他的下巴上滑下来，把那人吓了一跳，他猛地坐了起来。
　　“谁在那里？埃德加吗？你在下面干什么？”
　　朱利安没有说话，只是侧身向门的方向走去。那人跳了起来，踉踉跄跄地走到电灯开关的地方，找到了开关，打开了灯。他非常惊讶地盯着朱利安。
　　“你在这儿干什么？”他问道。
　　“我正要问你呢，”朱利安冷静地说，“你睡在我叔叔的厨房里干什么？”
　　“我有权利到这儿来，”那人粗鲁地说，“我太太是这儿的厨师，我的船进港了，我在休假。你叔叔和我老婆商量好了，我可以来这里。明白了吧？”
　　朱利安也很害怕，有斯蒂克太太和斯蒂克先生在这个家里是多么可怕啊！这是十分难以忍受的。
　　“等我叔叔早上打电话的时候我问问他，”朱利安说，“请别挡我的路，我想上楼去。”
　　斯蒂克先生眼睛盯着朱利安手里拿着的馅饼，说道：“哦，我明白了，从储藏室偷东西出来，干得不错。”
　　朱利安不想和斯蒂克先生争论，这个男人显然觉得自己是这屋子的老大，“别挡我的路，”朱利安说，“明天早上我叔叔来电话后，我再和你谈。”
　　斯蒂克先生似乎没有让开的意思，他站在那里，比朱利安高不了多少，真是一个讨厌的小个子男人，他那张胡子拉碴的脸上带着讽刺的微笑。
　　朱利安噘起嘴唇吹起口哨，楼上的地板上传来“扑通”一声，那是蒂米从乔治的床上跳下来的声音！接着楼梯上传来脚步声，紧接着脚步声到了厨房通道。蒂米来了！
　　他在门口闻了闻斯蒂克先生的气味，竖起鬃毛，露出牙齿，咆哮着。斯蒂克先生急忙从门口挪开身子，然后麻利地关上门，把狗挡在了门外，对朱利安咧嘴一笑。
　　“现在你打算怎么办？”他问道。
　　“我有必要告诉你吗？”朱利安说，他的脾气突然变得暴躁起来，“我要把这个香喷喷的肉饼直接扔到你脸上！”
　　他抬起手臂，斯蒂克先生下意识地挡住了头。
　　“不要这样，”他说，“我只是开个玩笑，明白吗？不要浪费了这么好的肉馅饼。如果你愿意，你随时可以上楼去。”
　　他挪到沙发的一边，朱利安打开门，蒂米咆哮着跳了起来。斯蒂克先生不安地看着它。
　　“别让那只讨厌的大狗靠近我，”他说，“我不喜欢狗。”
　　“这就奇怪了，你怎么不扔掉臭鬼呢？”朱利安说，“过来，蒂米！别理他，他不值得你咆哮。”
　　朱利安上楼去了，蒂米紧随其后。其他人都围拢过来，不知道发生了什么事，因为他们听到了楼下的声音。当朱利安告诉他们他差点把肉馅饼扔到斯蒂克先生脸上时，他们笑了。
　　“罪有应得，”安妮说，“虽然那将是一个很大的遗憾。因为如果你扔向了他，我们就吃不到了。斯蒂克太太是很可怕，但是她会做饭。这馅饼好吃极了。”
　　孩子们吃完了所有的肉馅饼和果酱馅饼，朱利安把斯蒂克先生从轮船上下来休假的事告诉了他们。
　　“斯蒂克一家真让人受不了，”迪克沉思着说，“遗憾的是，我们不能自己做主，把他们全都打发掉。乔治，难道你不能说服你爸爸让我们明天把斯蒂克一家赶走，让我们自己照顾自己吗？”
　　“我试试看吧，”乔治说，“可是你知道，我爸爸是多么难对付，但我会试试看。天哪，我现在困了。来吧，蒂米，我们去睡觉吧！
　　躺在我的脚下。我现在不会让你离开我的视线，以防可怕的斯蒂克一家人毒害你！”
　　很快，四个吃饱了的孩子安静地睡着了。他们不怕斯蒂克一家人来到他们的房间，因为他们知道蒂米会立刻醒来并发出警告。蒂米是他们最好的保镖。
　　早晨，斯蒂克太太做了一顿早餐，这使孩子们非常吃惊，“我猜她知道你爸爸会给你打电话，乔治，”朱利安说，“她是想让自己立于不败之地。你爸爸说几点打电话？九点钟，对吧？现在已经八点半了。我们去海滩跑一圈，然后回来。”
　　于是，他们五个跑了出去，没有搭理埃德加，埃德加站在后花园，准备对他们做些鬼脸。孩子们一致认为他一定是有点疯了，他的举止一点也不像朱利安这个年龄段的孩子们。
　　他们回来的时候还差十分钟才九点，“我们就坐在客厅里等电话。”朱利安说，“不能让斯蒂克太太先接电话。”
　　可是，当他们走到房子跟前的时候，却听到斯蒂克太太正在客厅里接电话，这让他们大失所望！
　　“是的，先生，”他们听见她说，“一切都很好。我可以管理好孩子们，虽然他们有些调皮捣蛋。是的，先生。当然，先生。嗯，先生，幸运的是我丈夫从轮船上回来休假了，他能帮我做很多事情。
　　先生，您不要担心，把一切料理好了再回来吧，我会把家里的一切安排好。”
　　乔治发疯似的冲进大厅，从斯蒂克太太手里抢过听筒。
　　“爸爸，是我乔治！快告诉我，妈妈怎么样了？”
　　“没有恶化，乔治，”爸爸说，“但我们要到明天上午才能知道确切的消息。听到斯蒂克太太说一切都好，我很高兴。原来我很不安，也很担心，现在好了，我感到很高兴，我能告诉妈妈你们很好，科林庄园一切都好！”
　　“但是一切都不好！”乔治激动地说，“太可怕了。难道不能把斯蒂克一家打发走，让我们自己当家做主吗？”
　　“天哪，当然不能，”爸爸说，又惊讶又恼怒，“你在想什么呢？
　　乔治，我真希望你明智点，为家里的事情操点心。我想说……”
　　“朱利安，你和他说话。”乔治无助地把听筒塞到朱利安的手里。朱利安把听筒放在耳边，用清晰的声音对叔叔打招呼。
　　“早上好，叔叔，我是朱利安！我很高兴婶婶的病情没有恶化。”
　　“唉，如果她知道科林庄园出了问题，她的病情就会恶化，”昆廷叔叔恼怒地说，“你就不能设法说说乔治，让她明白这个道理，她就不能忍受一两个星期吗？我老实告诉你，朱利安，在我不在家期间，我不打算解雇斯蒂克一家。我希望家里把一切都准备好，好让我把你婶婶带回来。如果你们不能忍受他们，你最好问问你的父母是否可以把你们接回去度过余下的假期，但是乔治不能和你们一起去，她要住在科林庄园。就这样吧。”
　　“可是，叔叔，”朱利安开口说，心里纳闷，他究竟怎样才能跟脾气暴躁的叔叔好好相处，“我要告诉你……”
　　电话的另一端响起“咔嗒”一声，昆廷叔叔挂断了电话。朱利安噘起嘴，环顾四周，皱着眉头。
　　“他挂断了电话，”他说，“就在我跟他讲道理的时候，他挂断了电话。”
　　“活该！”斯蒂克太太严厉的声音从大厅尽头传来，“现在你们知道自己的立场了吧？我是奉你叔叔之命留在这里的。你们都要规矩点，否则有你们好看！”
Chapter Six JULIAN DEFEATS THE STICKS
Chapter Six JULIAN DEFEATS THE STICKS
　　THERE was a slam. The kitchen door shut, and Mrs. Stick could be heard telling the newstriumphantly to Edgar and Mr. Stick. The children went into the sitting-room, sat down and stared atone another gloomily.
　　"Father's awful!" said George, furiously. "He never will listen to anything."25
　　"Well, after all, he is very upset," said Dick, reasonably. "It was a great pity that he rang before nine,so that Mrs. Stick got her say in first.""What did Father say to you?" said George. "Tell us exactly.""He said that if we couldn't put up with the Sticks, Anne and Dick and I were to go back to our ownparents," said Julian. "But you were to stay here."George stared at Julian. "Well," she said at last, "you can't put up with the Sticks, so you'd better allgo back. I can look after myself."
　　"Don't be an idiot!" said Julian, giving her arm a friendly shake, "You know we wouldn't desert you.
　　I can't say I look forward to the idea of being under the thumb of the amiable Sticks for a week ortwo, but there are worse things than that. We'll "stick" it together."But the feeble little joke didn't raise a smile, even from Anne. The idea of being under the Sticks"three thumbs was a most unpleasant prospect. Timothy put his head on George's knee.
　　She patted him and looked round.
　　"You go back home," she said to the others. "I've got a plan of my own, and you're not in it. I've gotTimmy, and he'll look after me. Telephone to your parents and go home tomorrow."George stared round defiantly. Her head was up, and there was no doubt but that she had made a planof some sort.
　　Julian felt uneasy.
　　"Don't be silly," he said. "I tell you we all stand together in this. If you've got a plan, we'll come intoit. But we're staying here with you, whatever happens.""Stay if you like," said George, "but my plan goes on, and you'll find you'll have to go home in theend. Come on, Timothy! Let's go to Jim and see if my boat is ready.""We'll go with you," said Dick. He was sorry for George. He could see below her defiance, and heknew she was very unhappy, worried about her mother, angry with her father, and upset because shefelt the others were staying on because of her, when they could go back home and have a lovely time.
　　It was not a happy day. George was very stand-offish, and kept on insisting that the others should goback home and leave her. She grew quite angry when they were as insistent that they would not.
　　"You're spoiling my plan," she said at last. "You might go back, you really might. I tell you, you'respoiling my plan completely."
　　26
　　"Well, what is your plan?" said Julian impatiently. "I can't help feeling you're just pretending you'vegot a plan, so that we'll go."
　　"I'm not pretending," said George, losing her temper. "Do I ever pretend? You know I don't! If I sayI've got a plan, I have got a plan. But I'm not giving it away, so it's no good asking me. It's my ownsecret, private plan."
　　"Well, I really do think you might tell us," said Dick, quite hurt. "After all, we're your best friends,aren't we? And we're going to stick by you, plan or no plan - yes, even if we spoil your plan, as yousay, we shall still stay here with you."
　　"I shan't let you spoil my plan," said George, her eyes flashing. "You're mean. You're against me, justlike the Sticks are."
　　"Oh, George, don't," said Anne, almost in tears. "Don't let's quarrel. It's bad enough quarrelling withthose awful Sticks, without us quarrelling too."George's temper died down as quickly as it had risen. She looked ashamed.
　　"Sorry!" she said. "I'm an idiot. I won't quarrel. But I do mean what I say. I shall go on with my plan,and I shan't tell you what it is, because if I do, it will spoil the holidays for you. Please believe me.""Let's take our dinner out with us again," said Julian, getting up. "We'll all feel better away from thishouse today. I'll go and tackle the old Stick.""Dear old Ju, isn't he brave!" said Anne, who would rather have died than go and face Mrs. Stick atthat moment.
　　Mrs. Stick proved very difficult. She felt rather victorious at the time, and was also very annoyed tofind that her beautiful meat-pie and jam-tarts had disappeared. Mr. Stick was in the middle of tellingher where they had gone when Julian appeared.
　　"How you can expect sandwiches for a picnic when you've stolen my meat-pie and jam-tarts, I don'tknow!" she began, indignantly. "You can have dry bread and jam for your-picnic, and that's all. Andwhat's more, I wouldn't give you that either except that I'm glad to be rid of you.""Good riddance to bad rubbish," murmured Edgar to himself. He was lying sprawled on the sofa,reading some kind of highly-coloured comic paper.
　　"If you've anything to say to me, Edgar, come outside and say it," said Julian, dangerously.
　　"You leave Edgar alone," said Mrs. Stick, at once.
　　27
　　"There's nothing I should like better," said Julian, scornfully. "Who wants to be with him?
　　Cowardly little spotty-face!"
　　"Now, now, look "ere!" began Mr. Stick, from his corner.
　　"I don't want to look at you," said Julian at once.
　　"Now, look "ere," said Mr. Stick, angrily, standing up.
　　"I've told you I don't want to," said Julian. "You're not a pleasant sight.""Insolence!" said Mrs. Stick, rapidly losing her temper.
　　"No, not insolence - just the plain truth," said Julian, airily. Mrs. Stick glared at him. Julian defeatedher. He had such a ready tongue, and he said everything so politely. The ruder his words were, themore politely he spoke. Mrs. Stick didn't understand people like Julian.
　　She felt that they were too clever for her. She hated the boy, and banged a saucepan viciously downon the sink, wishing that it was Julian's head under the saucepan instead of the sink.
　　Stinker jumped up and growled at the sudden noise.
　　"Hallo, Stinker!" said Julian. "Had a bath yet? Alas, no! - as smelly as ever, aren't you?""You know that dog's name isn't Stinker," said Mrs. Stick, angrily. "You get out of my kitchen.""Right!" said Julian. "Pleased to go. Don't bother about the dry bread and jam. I'll manage somethinga bit better than that."
　　He went out, whistling. Stinker growled, and Edgar repeated loudly what he had said before:
　　"Good riddance to bad rubbish!"
　　"What did you say?" said Julian, suddenly poking his head in at the kitchen door again. But Edgar didnot dare to repeat it, so off went Julian again, whistling merrily, but not feeling nearly as merry as hiswhistle. He was worried. After all, if Mrs. Stick was going to make meals as difficult as this, life wasnot going to be very pleasant at Kirrin Cottage.
　　"Anyone feel inclined to have dry bread and jam for lunch?" inquired Julian, when he returned to theothers. "Not? I rather thought so, so I turned down Mrs. Stick's kind offer. I vote we go and buysomething decent. That shop in the village has good sausage-rolls."George was very silent all that day. She was worrying about her mother, the others knew. She wasprobably thinking about her plan too, they thought, and wondered whatever it could be.
　　"Shall we go over to Kirrin Island today?" asked Julian, thinking that it would take George's mind offher worries, if they went to her beloved island.
　　George shook her head.
　　28
　　"No," she said. "I don't feel like it. The boat's all ready, I know - but I just don't feel like it. You see,till I know Mother is going to get better, I don't feel I want to be out of reach of the house. If atelephone message came from Father; the Sticks could always send Edgar to look for me - and if Iwas on the island, he couldn't find me."
　　The children messed about that day, doing nothing at all. They went back to tea, and Mrs. Stickprovided them with bread and butter and jam, but no cake. The milk was sour too, and everyone-hadto have tea without milk, which they all disliked.
　　As they ate their tea, the children heard Edgar outside the window. He held a tin bowl in his hand,and put it down on the grass outside.
　　"Your dog's dinner," he yelled.
　　"He looks like a dog's dinner himself," said Dick, in disgust. "Messy creature!"That made everyone laugh. "Edgar, the Dog's Dinner!" said Anne. "Any biscuits in that tin on thesideboard, do you think, George?"
　　George got up to see. Timothy slipped out of doors and went to the dish put down for him. He sniffedat it. George, coming back from the sideboard, looked out of the window as she passed and saw him.
　　At once the thought of poison came back to her mind and she yelled to Timothy, making the othersjump out of their skins.
　　TIM! TIM! Don't touch it!"
　　Timothy wagged his tail as if to say he didn't mean to touch it, anyway. George rushed out of doors,and picked up the mess of raw meat. She sniffed at it.
　　"You haven't touched it, have you, Timothy?" she said, anxiously.
　　Dick leaned out of the window.
　　. "No, he didn't eat any. I watched him. He sniffed all round and about it, but he wouldn't touch it. Ibet it's been dosed with rat-poison or something."George was very white. "Oh Timmy!" she said. "You're such a sensible dog. You wouldn't touchpoisoned stuff, would you?"
　　"Woof!" said Timmy, decidedly. Stinker heard the bark and put his nose out of the kitchen door.
　　George called to him in a loud voice:
　　"Stinker, Stinker, come here! Timmy doesn't want his dinner. You can have it. Come along, Stinker,here it is!"
　　Edgar came rushing out behind Stinker. "Don't you give that to him," he said.
　　29
　　"Why not?" asked George. "Go on, Edgar - tell me why not.""He don't eat raw meat," said Edgar, after a pause. "He only eats dog biscuits.""That's a lie!" said George, flaming up. "I saw him eating meat yesterday. Here, Stinker - you comeand eat this."
　　Edgar snatched the bowl from George, almost snarling at her, and ran indoors at top speed.
　　George was about to go after him, but Julian, who had jumped out of the window when Edgar cameup, stopped her.
　　"No good, old thing!" he said. "You won't get anything out of him. The meat's probably at the back ofthe kitchen fire by now. From now on, we feed Timothy ourselves with meat bought from the butcherwith our own money. Don't be afraid that he'll eat poisoned stuff. He's too wise a dog for that.""He might, if he was terribly, awfully hungry, Julian," said George, looking rather green now.
　　She felt sick inside. "I wasn't going to let Stinker eat that poisoned stuff, of course, but I guessed thatif it was poisoned, one of the Sticks would come rushing out and stop Stinker eating it. And Edgardid. So it proves it was poisoned, doesn't it?""I rather think it does," said Julian. "But don't worry, George. Timmy won't be poisoned.""But he might, he might," said George, putting her hand on the big dog's head. "Oh, I can't bear thethought of it, Julian. I can't, I really can't.""Don't think about it then," said Julian, taking her indoors again. "Here, have a biscuit!""You don't think the Sticks would poison us, do you?" said Anne, looking suddenly scared andgazing at her biscuit as if it might bite her.
　　"No, idiot. They only want to get Timmy out of the way because he guards us so well," said Julian.
　　"Don't look so scared. All this will settle down in a day or two, and we'll have a grand time after all.
　　You'll see!"
　　But Julian only said this to comfort his little sister. Secretly he was very worried. He wished he couldtake Anne, Dick and George back to his own home. But he knew George wouldn't come.
　　And how could they leave her to the Sticks? It was quite impossible. Friends must stick together, andsomehow they must face things until Aunt Fanny and Uncle Quentin came back.
6.智斗斯蒂克一家
　　智斗斯蒂克一家
　　“砰”的一声，厨房的门关上了，孩子们听到斯蒂克太太向埃德加和斯蒂克先生得意地讲述她的“战绩”。孩子们走进起居室，坐了下来，垂头丧气地面面相觑。
　　“爸爸太执拗了！”乔治生气地说，“他从来都听不进去别人的意见。”
　　“毕竟他也很不好受。”迪克通情达理地说，“没办法，他没到九点就打电话，让斯蒂克太太来了个恶人先告状。”
　　“爸爸对你说了什么？”乔治问道，“如实地告诉我们。”
　　朱利安说：“他说，如果我们受不了斯蒂克一家，安妮、迪克和我可以回家，但是你必须留在这儿。”
　　“好吧，”乔治盯着朱利安，她想了想，最后说，“如果你们不能忍受斯蒂克一家，还是回去吧，我可以照顾自己。”
　　“不要傻了！”朱利安一边说着，一边友好地摇了摇她的胳膊，“你知道我们不会抛弃你的。我不指望在一两周内斯蒂克一家会善待我们，也许还有比这更糟糕的事情，但是，‘一根棍子易折断，几根棍子折断难’，我们这几根棍子团结在一起吧！”
　　但他的话连安妮听了也笑不出来。一想到受斯蒂克一家的气，谁能笑得出来呢？蒂米把头靠在乔治的膝盖上。她拍了拍它，环顾四周。
　　“你们回家吧，”她对其他人说，“我有自己的计划，不能拖累你们。我有蒂米，它会照顾我的。给你们的父母打电话吧，明天回家。”
　　乔治用倔强的目光环顾四周，她挺胸昂头，毫无疑问，她的计划已经形成了。
　　朱利安感到很不安。
　　“别傻了，”他说，“我说过，我们大家永远在一起。如果你有什么计划，我们必须参与其中。但不管发生什么，我们都和你在一起。”
　　“如果你们愿意的话，就留下来吧，”乔治说，“但我还是要实施我的计划，你们最终还得回家。咱们走，蒂米！咱们去吉姆那儿看看我的船准备好了没有。”
　　“我们和你一起去。”迪克说。他为乔治感到难过。透过她的目光，他知道她很不开心：她担心她的妈妈，对她的爸爸很不满，也很不安，因为她觉得其他人是为了她才留下来的，他们本可以回家，享受快乐的时光。
　　这一天孩子们并不快乐。乔治非常冷淡，坚持要求其他人离开她回家去。当他们坚持不回家的时候，她变得非常生气。
　　“你们在破坏我的计划，”她最后说，“你们应该回去，你们真的应该回去。我告诉你们，你们把我的计划完全打乱了。”
　　“那么，你的计划是什么呢？”朱利安不耐烦地说，“我觉得你只是在假装有一个计划，目的是撵我们走。”
　　“我不是故弄玄虚，”乔治大发雷霆，“你们知道，我从不说谎！
　　如果我说我有一个计划，我就有一个计划。但我不会泄露，所以问我也没用。这是我自己的秘密，私人计划。”
　　“我真的认为你可以告诉我们，”迪克说，他很难过，“毕竟我们是你最好的朋友，对吧？我们会支持你，有计划也好，没有计划也罢——即使我们破坏了你的计划，就像你说的，我们仍然会和你在一起。”
　　“我不会让你们破坏我的计划，”乔治说，她的眼睛闪闪发光，“你们也是坏人，总跟我对着干，就像斯蒂克一家一样。”
　　“乔治，别这样说。”安妮几乎带着哭腔说道，“我们别吵架了。
　　跟讨厌的斯蒂克一家吵架已经够糟糕的了，我们就不要吵架了。”
　　乔治的怒气来得快，去得也快，她感到有点惭愧。
　　“对不起！”她说，“我是一个白痴，我不会与你们争吵了。但我是认真的，我将继续去实施我的计划，但我不会告诉你们计划的内容是什么，因为如果我说出来，你们的假期就毁了。请相信我。”
　　“咱们再出去野餐吧，”朱利安说着站了起来，“离开这所房子我们都会感觉好一些。我去对付斯蒂克太太。”
　　“亲爱的朱利安，你真勇敢！”安妮说，她宁愿死也不愿去见斯蒂克太太。
　　斯蒂克太太非常难对付。此刻她正沉浸在胜利的喜悦中，同时也为丢失了漂亮的肉馅饼和果酱馅饼而懊恼。当朱利安出现时，斯蒂克先生正在告诉她馅饼去了哪里。
　　“你偷了我的肉馅饼和果酱馅饼，还敢找我要野餐的三明治？岂有此理！”她开始变得怒不可遏，“你们野餐可以吃干面包和果酱嘛。说实话，如果不是我想摆脱你们，连这些也不会给你们。”
　　埃德加自言自语着：“谢天谢地。”他四肢伸展着躺在沙发上，读着色彩鲜艳的漫画。
　　“埃德加，如果你有什么话要对我说，就到外面来。”朱利安恶狠狠地说。
　　“你不要招惹埃德加。”斯蒂克太太马上说。
　　“哼！谁愿意招惹他？”朱利安轻蔑地说，“谁想和他在一起？脸上长满斑点的胆小鬼！”
　　“什么，什么！你说什么？”斯蒂克先生在角落里说话了。
　　“我不想看到你。”朱利安马上说。
　　“听听，你听听！”斯蒂克先生生气地站起来说。
　　“我告诉过你，我不想看见你，”朱利安说，“看见你真晦气！”
　　“傲慢无礼！”斯蒂克太太顿时火冒三丈。
　　“非也，非也——实事求是。”朱利安说。
　　斯蒂克太太瞪着他，朱利安击败了她。他的口才这么好，他说的每一句话都很有礼貌。他言辞越粗鲁，说话的方式越礼貌。斯蒂克太太不太理解像朱利安这样的人。她觉得他们对她来说聪明过人，她恨透了这个男孩，把锅重重地摔在水槽上，她希望这水槽就是朱利安的头。
　　臭鬼跳了起来，对着突如其来的响声咆哮起来。
　　“喂，臭鬼！”朱利安说，“洗澡了吗？唉，还是没有！和以前一样臭，不是吗？”
　　“你知道那只狗的名字不是臭鬼，”斯蒂克太太生气地说，“你从我的厨房滚出去。”
　　“好的！”朱利安说，“我还不愿意待了呢。干面包和果酱我也不要了，我会搞到比它们更好的东西。”
　　他吹着口哨走了出去。臭鬼咆哮着，埃德加大声地重复着他之前说过的话：“谢天谢地！”
　　“你说什么？”朱利安说着，突然又把头探进厨房的门里。可是埃德加不敢再重复，于是朱利安又走了，他吹着口哨，显得很开心，可其实心里并不愉快。他很担心，如果斯蒂克太太不肯做饭，那么在科林庄园的生活就不会那么愉快了。
　　“午饭谁想吃干面包和果酱吗？”朱利安回到其他人身边时问道，“都不想吃吧？我也认为没人想吃，所以我拒绝了斯蒂克太太的好意。我建议咱们去买些好东西吃，村里的那家商店有很好的香肠卷。”
　　乔治一整天都沉默不语。其他人都知道她是在担心她的妈妈，也可能在考虑她的计划，他们都想知道计划到底是什么。
　　“今天我们去科林岛好吗？”朱利安问道，他觉得如果他们去乔治心爱的小岛，她就会从烦恼中解脱出来。
　　乔治摇了摇头。
　　“不，”她说，“我不想去。船已经修好了，这我知道，但我就是不想去。你看，在我知道妈妈好起来之前，我觉得我不能离开家。
　　如果有爸爸的电话找我，斯蒂克太太肯定会派埃德加去叫我。如果我在岛上，他就找不到我了。”
　　那天孩子们东游西荡，无所事事。他们回去吃茶点时，斯蒂克太太给他们准备了面包、黄油和果酱，但没有蛋糕。牛奶也很酸，大家只能喝不加牛奶的茶，而这是他们都不喜欢的。
　　正当孩子们吃茶点时，他们听到窗外传来埃德加的声音。他手里拿着一个锡碗，把它放在外面的草地上。
　　“这是你的狗的晚餐。”他喊道。
　　“他自己看上去就像狗的晚餐，”迪克厌恶地说，“脏兮兮的家伙！”
　　他的话让每个人都笑了起来，“埃德加，狗的晚餐！”安妮说，“在餐具柜上的罐子里有饼干吗，乔治？”
　　乔治起身看了看。蒂米从门里溜出来，走到为它准备的盘子那里闻了闻。乔治从餐具柜那里回来，她从窗户往外看，看到了蒂米。一想到毒药，她就对蒂米大吼一声：“蒂米！别碰它！”其他人吓得都跳了起来。
　　蒂米摇了摇尾巴，好像在说它并不是有意要去碰的。乔治冲出门外，捡起那堆生肉闻了闻。
　　“你没有碰它吧，蒂米？”她焦急地说。
　　迪克把头探出窗外，说道：“没有，它什么也没吃。我一直注视着它。它只是闻了闻，但没有碰它。我打赌这堆生肉里放了老鼠药之类的东西。”
　　乔治的脸变白了，“哦，蒂米！”她说，“你真是只有理智的狗。
　　你不会碰有毒的东西，对吧？”
　　“汪！”蒂米清脆地叫了一声。臭鬼听到了蒂米的叫声，把它的鼻子从厨房的门口伸了出来。
　　乔治大声对他喊道：
　　“臭鬼，到这里来！蒂米不想要它的晚餐。你来吃吧。来，臭鬼，给你！”
　　埃德加从臭鬼身后冲了出来，喊道：“不要给它吃那东西。”
　　“为什么不呢？”乔治问道，“快说，埃德加——告诉我为什么不能给它吃。”
　　“它不吃生肉，”埃德加停了一会儿说，“它只吃狗饼干。”
　　“你这是在撒谎！”乔治说着，涨红了脸，“昨天我还看见它吃肉了。来，臭鬼，来吃肉吧。”
　　埃德加对乔治咆哮着，一把夺过她手中的那只碗，飞快地跑进屋里。乔治正要去追他，但朱利安阻止了她，刚刚他在埃德加出现的时候跳到了窗外。
　　“没必要去追他，老伙计！”他说，“你从他嘴里得不到任何信息。此刻，他可能把那块肉扔进厨房的火里了。从现在起，我们用自己的钱从屠夫那里买肉喂蒂米。不要担心它会吃有毒的东西，它聪明着呢。”
　　“如果它饿极了，可能会吃，朱利安。”乔治说，脸色铁青。她感到一阵恶心，“当然，我不是想让臭鬼吃有毒的东西，但我猜如果那块肉有毒，斯蒂克家里的人就会冲出来不让臭鬼吃，埃德加果然这样做了。这证明那块肉是有毒的，不是吗？”
　　朱利安说：“你说得没错。但是别担心，乔治，蒂米不会中毒的。”
　　“但是有这可能啊。”乔治说着，把手放在蒂米的头上，“哦，一想到这一点，我就受不了，朱利安，我真的受不了。”
　　“那就别想了，”朱利安说着，把她带到屋里，“吃块饼干吧！”
　　“你认为斯蒂克一家会毒死我们吗？”安妮说，她突然被这个念头吓了一跳，她盯着手上的饼干，好像饼干会咬她似的。
　　“不会的，别胡思乱想！他们只是想除掉蒂米，因为它很好地保护着我们，”朱利安说，“别那么害怕。这一切将在一两天内安定下来，我们终究会迎来美好的时光，你会看到的！”
　　但朱利安说这话只是为了安慰他的小妹妹，其实他也很担心。
　　他希望能把安妮、迪克和乔治带回自己的家。但他知道乔治不会去，他们怎么能把她丢给斯蒂克一家呢？这是完全不可能的。朋友们必须团结在一起，不管怎样，他们必须共同面对困难，直到范妮婶婶和昆廷叔叔回来。
Chapter Seven BETTER NEWS
Chapter Seven BETTER NEWS
　　"Do you think we'd better slip down after the Sticks have gone to bed and get some food out of thelarder again?" said Dick, when no supper appeared that evening.
　　Julian didn't feel inclined to sneak down and confront Mr. Stick again. Not that he was afraid of him,but the whole thing was so unpleasant. This was their house, the food was theirs - so why should theyhave to beg for it, or take it on the sly? It was ridiculous.
　　"Come here, Timothy!" said Julian. The dog left George's side and went to Julian, looking up at theboy inquiringly. "You're going to come with me and persuade dear kind Mrs. Stick to give us the bestthings out of the larder!" said Julian, with a grin.
　　The others laughed, cheering up at once.
　　"Good idea!" said Dick. "Can we all come and see the fun.""Better not," said Julian. "I can manage fine by myself."He went down the passage to the kitchen. The radio was going inside, so no one in the kitchen heardJulian till he was actually standing inside the door. Then Edgar looked up and saw Timothy as well asJulian.
　　Edgar was scared of the big dog, who was now growling fiercely. He went behind the kitchen sofaand stayed there, eyeing Timmy fearfully.
　　"What do you want?" said Mrs. Stick, turning off the radio.
　　"Supper," said Julian, pleasantly. "Supper! The best things out of the larder - bought with my uncle'smoney, cooked on my aunt's stove with gas she pays for - yes, supper! Open the larder door and let'ssee what there is in there."
　　"Well, of all the nerve!" began Mr. Stick, in amazement.
　　"You can have a loaf of bread and some cheese," said Mrs. Stick, "and that's my last word.""Well, it isn't my last word," said Julian, and he went to the larder door. Timmy, keep to heel!
　　Growl all you like, but don't bite anybody - yet!"Timmy's growls were really frightful. Even Mr. Stick put himself at the other end of the room.
　　As for Stinker, he was nowhere to be seen. He had gone into the scullery at the very first growl, andwas now shivering behind the wringer.
　　31
　　Mrs. Stick's mouth went into a hard straight line. "You take the bread and cheese and clear out,"she said.
　　Julian opened the larder door, whistling softly, which annoyed Mrs. Stick more than anything else.
　　"My word!" said Julian, admiringly. "You do know how to stock a larder, I must say, Mrs.
　　Stick. A roast chicken! I thought I smelt one cooking. I suppose Mr. Stick killed one of our chickenstoday. I thought I heard a lot of squawking. And what fine tomatoes! Best to be got from the village,I've no doubt. And oh, Mrs. Stick - what a perfectly marvellous treacle tart! I must say you're a goodcook, I really must."
　　Julian picked up the chicken, the dish of tomatoes, and then balanced the plate with the treacle tart onthe top.
　　Mrs. Stick yelled at him.
　　"You leave them things alone! That's our supper! You leave them there.""You've made a little mistake," said Julian, politely. It's our supper! We've had very little to eat today,and we could do with a good supper. Thanks awfully!""Now look "ere!" began Mr. Stick, angrily, furious at seeing his lovely supper walking away.
　　"You surely don't want me to look at you again," said Julian, in a tone of amazement. "What for?
　　Have you shaved yet - or washed? I'm afraid not. So, if you don't mind I think I'd rather not look atyou."
　　Mr. Stick was speechless. He was not ready with his tongue at any time, and a boy like Julian tookhis breath away, and left him with nothing to say except his favourite "Now, look 'ere!""Put those things down," said Mrs. Stick sharply. "What do you think we're going to have for oursupper if you walk off with them? you tell me that!""Easy!" said Julian. "Let me offer you our supper - bread and cheese, Mrs. Stick, bread and cheese!"Mrs. Stick made an angry noise, and started to go after Julian with her hand raised. But Timothyimmediately leapt at her, and his teeth snapped together with a loud click.
　　"Oh!" howled Mrs. Stick. "That dog of yours nearly took my hand off! The brute! I'll do for him oneday, you see if I don't."
　　"You had a good try today, didn't you?" said Julian, in a quiet voice, fixing his eyes straight on thewoman's face. "That's a matter for the police, isn't it? Be careful, Mrs. Stick. I've a good mind to go tothe police tomorrow."
　　32
　　Just as before, the mention of the police seemed to frighten Mrs. Stick. She cast a look at her husbandand took a step backward. Julian wondered if the man had done something wrong and was hidingfrom the police. He never seemed to put a foot out of doors.
　　The boy went up the passage triumphantly. Timmy followed at his heels, disappointed that he hadn'tbeen able to get a nibble at Stinker. Julian marched into the sitting-room, and set the dishes carefullydown on the table.
　　"What ho!" he said. "Look what I've got - the Sticks' own supper!" Then he told the others all thathad happened, and they laughed loudly.
　　"How do you think of all those things to say?" said Anne, admiringly. "I don't wonder you makethem feel wild, Ju. It's a good thing we've got Timmy to back us up.""Yes, I shouldn't feel nearly so bold without Timmy," said Julian.
　　It was a very good supper. There were knives and forks in the sideboard, and the children made dowith fruit plates from the sideboard too, rather than go and get plates from the kitchen. There wasbread over from their tea, so they were able to make a very good meal. They enjoyed it thoroughly.
　　"Sorry we can't give you the chicken bones, Tim," said George, "but they might split inside you andinjure you. You can have all the scraps. See you don't leave any for Stinker!"Timmy didn't. With two or three great gulps he cleared his plate, and then sat waiting for any scrapsof treacle tart that might descend his way.
　　The children felt cheerful after such a good meal. They had completely eaten the chicken.
　　Nothing was left except a pile of bones. They had eaten all the tomatoes too, finished the bread, andenjoyed every scrap of the treacle tart.
　　It was late, Anne yawned, and then George yawned too. "Let's go to bed," she said. "I don't feel likehaving a game of cards or anything."
　　So they went to bed, and as usual Timothy lay heavily on George's feet. He lay there awake for sometime, his ears cocked to hear noises from below. He heard the Sticks go up to bed. He heard doorsclosing. He heard a whine from Stinker. Then all was silence. Timmy dropped his head on to hispaws and slept - but he kept one ear cocked for danger. Timothy didn't trust the Sticks any more thanthe children did!
　　The children awoke very early in the morning. Julian awoke first. It was a marvellous day. Julianwent to the window and looked out. The sky was a very pale blue, and rosy-pink clouds floated 33about it. The sea was a clean blue too, smooth and calm. Julian remembered what Anne often said -she said that the world in the early morning always looked as if it had come back fresh from thelaundry - so clean and new and fresh!
　　The children all bathed before breakfast, and this time they were back at half-past eight, afraid thatGeorge's father might telephone early again. Julian saw Mrs. Stick on the stairs and called to her.
　　"Has my uncle telephoned yet?"
　　"No," said the woman, in a surly tone. She had been hoping that the telephone would ring while thechildren were out, then, as she had done the day before, she could answer it, and get a few words infirst.
　　"We'll have breakfast now, please," said Julian. "A. good breakfast, Mrs. Stick. My uncle might askus what we'd had for breakfast, mightn't he? You never know."Mrs. Stick evidently thought that Julian might tell his uncle if she gave them only bread and butterfor breakfast, so very soon the children smelt a delicious smell of bacon frying. Mrs. Stick brought ina dish of it garnished with tomatoes. She banged it down on the table with the plates.
　　Edgar arrived with a pot of tea and a tray of cups and saucers.
　　"Ah, here is dear Edgar!" said Julian, in a tone of amiable surprise. "Dear old spotty-face!""Garn!" said Edgar, and banged down the teapot. Timmy growled, and Edgar fled for his life.
　　George didn't want any breakfast. Julian put hers back in the warm dish and put a plate over it.
　　He knew that she was waiting for news. If only the telephone would ring - then she would know ifher mother was really better or not.
　　It did ring as they were halfway through the meal. George was there before the bell had stoppedpealing. She put the receiver to her ear. "Father! Yes, it's George. How's Mother?"There was a pause as George listened. All the children stopped eating and listened in silence, waitingfor George to speak. They would know by her next words if the news was good or not.
　　"Oh - oh, I'm so glad!" they heard George say. "Did she have the operation yesterday? Oh, you nevertold me! But it's all right now, is it? Poor Mother! Give her my love. I do want to see her.
　　Oh Father, can't I come?"
　　Evidently the answer was no. George listened for a while, then spoke a few more words and saidgood-bye.
　　34
　　She ran into the sitting-room. "You heard, didn't you?" she said, joyfully. "Mother's better. She'll getall right now, and will be back home soon - in about ten days. Father won't come back till he bringsher home. It's good news about Mother - but I'm afraid we can't get rid of the Sticks."
7.更好的消息
　　更好的消息
　　“你是说我们在斯蒂克一家睡觉后溜下来，从储藏室里再弄点吃的来吗？”那天晚上，见没有晚饭可吃，迪克说。
　　朱利安不想溜下来再次遭遇斯蒂克先生了，这并不是说他怕斯蒂克先生，而是整件事情是如此不愉快。这是他们的房子，食物也是他们的，他们为什么要乞讨或者偷呢？真是荒唐！
　　“过来，蒂米！”朱利安说。蒂米从乔治的身边走到朱利安跟前，抬头用询问的目光看着这个男孩，“你要和我一起去说服好心的斯蒂克太太，把食品储藏室里最好的东西给我们！”朱利安笑着说。
　　其他人都笑了，立刻高兴起来。
　　“好主意！”迪克说，“我们能来看热闹吗？”
　　“不行，”朱利安说，“我自己完全能对付。”
　　他沿着走廊来到厨房。收音机开着，所以厨房里没有人听到朱利安进来。这时，埃德加抬起头，看见了蒂米和朱利安。
　　埃德加害怕那只大狗，此刻它正狂吠着。他躲到厨房沙发后面，待在那儿，惊恐地盯着蒂米。
　　“你想要什么？”斯蒂克太太说着，关掉了收音机。
　　朱利安说：“晚餐。储藏室里最好的东西是我叔叔花钱买的，是在我婶婶的炉子上用煤气做的。打开储藏室的门，我看看里面有什么。”
　　“傲慢无礼的家伙！”斯蒂克先生惊讶地说。
　　“你们可以吃面包和奶酪，”斯蒂克太太说，“我再说最后一遍。”
　　“但不是我要说的最后一遍。”朱利安说着，走到储藏室的门口，“蒂米，跟我来！尽情咆哮，但不要咬人。”
　　蒂米的咆哮真的很可怕，就连斯蒂克先生也躲到了屋子的另一头，至于臭鬼，早就跑得无影无踪了。听到蒂米第一声咆哮时，它就钻进了厨房，躲在压榨机后面瑟瑟发抖。
　　斯蒂克太太的嘴绷成了一条直线，说道：“你带上面包和奶酪滚出去。”
　　朱利安打开储藏室的门，轻轻地吹着口哨，这让斯蒂克太太更生气了。
　　“天哪！”朱利安羡慕地说道，“我必须承认，你知道如何利用储藏室，斯蒂克太太。一只烤鸡！肯定是斯蒂克先生今天杀了我们的一只母鸡，我说怎么听到了鸡叫的声音呢。哦，多好的西红柿啊！
　　我敢肯定这是从村子里买的。哦，斯蒂克太太，多么美味的糖浆馅饼啊！你真是个好厨师。”
　　朱利安拿起了鸡肉，一盘西红柿，然后在盘子的顶部放上糖浆馅饼。
　　斯蒂克太太对他吼道：“你把东西放下！那是我们的晚餐！放下。”
　　“你犯了一个小错误，”朱利安礼貌地说，“这是我们的晚餐！今天我们还没吃多少东西呢，吃一顿丰盛的晚餐也不错。多谢您的好意！”
　　“岂有此理！”斯蒂克先生看到他那香喷喷的晚餐被人拿走非常生气。
　　“不要再让我看到你，”朱利安用惊讶的口吻说，“你叫什么？你刮胡子了吗？恐怕没有吧。所以，如果你不介意，我想还是不看到你为好。”
　　斯蒂克先生被气得说不出话来。他本来就笨嘴拙舌，一个小小的朱利安就气得他说不出话来，只是重复着那句“岂有此理”！
　　“把东西放下，”斯蒂克太太严厉地说，“如果你把它们拿走，我们晚饭吃什么？你告诉我！”
　　“简单！”朱利安说，“斯蒂克太太，把我们的晚餐——面包和奶酪给你们！”
　　斯蒂克太太怒吼一声，举起手去追朱利安，但蒂米立即扑向她，它的牙齿咬得“咯吱咯吱”响。
　　“哎呀！”斯蒂克太太号啕大哭，“你的那只狗差点把我的手咬掉了！畜生，总有一天我会跟你算账，你等着！”
　　“看你今天做的好事！”朱利安用平静的声音说，眼睛死死地盯着那女人的脸，“应该让警方处理。斯蒂克太太，当心点，我很想明天去找警察。”
　　和之前一样，一提到警察，斯蒂克太太就害怕。她看了丈夫一眼，后退了一步。朱利安怀疑斯蒂克先生是不是有案在身，所以要躲着警察。他似乎从来没有走出家门半步。
　　朱利安得意扬扬地走过门廊。蒂米跟在他后面，没有咬到臭鬼，它很失望。朱利安大步走进起居室，把盘子小心翼翼地放在桌子上。
　　“喂！”他说，“瞧瞧，这是斯蒂克一家的晚餐！”然后他把刚才发生的一切讲了一遍，大家大声笑了起来。
　　“弄来这么多好吃的，你真了不起！”安妮一脸崇拜地说，“他们一定被你气得发疯了吧，朱利安？有蒂米的帮助，我们真幸运。”
　　“是的，没有蒂米，我也不会这么大胆。”朱利安说。
　　这是一顿丰盛的晚餐。餐具柜里有刀叉，孩子们没有去厨房拿盘子，而是用水果盘凑合着吃的。茶点还剩下了面包，无疑这是一顿美餐，他们尽情地享用着。
　　“对不起，蒂米，我们不能给你鸡骨头吃，”乔治说，“骨头可能会伤害到你。你可以吃所有的残羹剩饭，别给臭鬼留下任何东西！”
　　蒂米什么也没有留下，它几口就把它盘子里的东西吃个精光，然后坐在那里等待掉落的糖浆馅饼屑。
　　饱餐一顿之后，孩子们都很高兴。他们把烤鸡全吃了，只剩下一堆骨头；他们还吃了所有的西红柿、面包和糖浆馅饼。
　　天色已晚，安妮打了个呵欠，乔治也打了个呵欠。“我们去睡觉吧，”乔治说，“我不想玩纸牌之类的游戏了。”
　　于是，他们上床睡觉，蒂米像往常一样躺在乔治的脚上。它躺在那里，但没有睡去，而是竖起耳朵，听着下面传来的声音。它听到斯蒂克一家关了门上了床，还听到臭鬼哀号的声音，然后一切归于沉寂。蒂米把头靠在爪子上睡着了，但它的一只耳朵依然竖着以防危险。像孩子们一样，蒂米也不相信斯蒂克一家人了。
　　孩子们一大早就醒了，朱利安醒得最早。这是一个美妙的日子，朱利安走到窗前向外看。天空一片淡蓝色，玫瑰色的云彩飘浮不定；大海也是一片清澈的蓝色，风平浪静。朱利安想起了安妮常说的话：天空好像刚从干洗店拿回来的一样。
　　孩子们都在早餐前洗完澡，这一次他们八点半就回来了，生怕昆廷叔叔会提前给他们打电话。朱利安在楼梯上看到斯蒂克太太，便大声问道：“我叔叔打电话来了吗？”
　　“没有！”那女人粗暴地说。她一直希望孩子们出去的时候电话能响，然后，就像她前一天做的那样，她可以接电话，来个恶人先告状。
　　“我们现在就去吃早餐吧，”朱利安说，“早餐要好些，斯蒂克太太，我叔叔可能会问我们早餐吃了什么，对吧？”
　　斯蒂克太太显然认为如果早餐只给他们面包和黄油吃，朱利安会向他的叔叔告状，于是，孩子们很快就闻到了煎培根的香味。斯蒂克太太端来了一盘煎培根，上面还用西红柿装饰了一下。她把盘子“砰”地摔在桌子上，埃德加端来了一壶茶、一盘茶杯和碟子。
　　“啊，亲爱的埃德加来了！”朱利安用一种和蔼而惊讶的语气说，“满脸都是粉刺！”
　　“住口！”埃德加说着，把茶壶“砰”地摔在桌子上。蒂米咆哮起来，埃德加飞也似的逃掉了。
　　乔治不想吃早餐。朱利安把她的早餐放回热乎乎的碗里，并用一个盘子盖好。他知道她在等待消息，电话来了，她就会知道母亲是不是好多了。
　　当他们吃到一半的时候，电话响了。第一遍铃声未落，乔治就飞奔到了电话旁，她抓起话筒放在耳边：“爸爸，我是乔治。妈妈怎么样了？”
　　乔治听着，所有的孩子都停了下来，静静地听着，等着乔治说话，因为通过她接下来说的话，他们将知道消息是好是坏。
　　“哦，哦，挺好！”他们听到乔治说，“她昨天动的手术吗？哦，您为什么不早点告诉我？但现在没事了，对吧？可怜的妈妈！请转达我对她的爱，我很想去看她。噢，爸爸，我能去吗？”
　　回答显然是“不行”。乔治听了一会儿，又说了几句话，最后说了声“再见”。
　　她跑进起居室，“你们听到了吧？”她兴高采烈地说，“妈妈的病好多了。现在她正在康复中，十天后就能回家了。爸爸要和妈妈一起回来。这是关于妈妈的好消息，不过恐怕我们还无法摆脱斯蒂克一家人。”
Chapter Eight GEORGE'S PLAN
Chapter Eight GEORGE'S PLAN
　　MRS. STICK had overheard the conversation on the telephone - at least, she had heard George's sideof it. She knew that George's mother was better and that her father would not return till her mothercould be brought home. That would be in about ten days! The Sticks could have a fine time till then,no doubt about that!
　　George suddenly found that her appetite had come back. She ate her bacon hungrily, and scraped thedish round with a piece of bread. She had three cups of tea, and then sat back contentedly.
　　"I feel better," she said. Anne slipped her hand in hers. She was very glad that her aunt was going tobe all right. If it wasn't for those awful Sticks they could have a lovely time. Then George saidsomething that made Julian cross.
　　"Well, now that I know Mother is going to be better, I can stand up to the Sticks all right by myselfwith Timmy. So I want you three to go back home and finish the hols without me. I shall be all right.""Shut up, George," said Julian. "We've argued this all out before. I've made up my mind - and I don'tchange it, any more than you do, when I've made it up. You make me cross.""Well," said George, "I told you I'd got a plan - and you don't come into it, I'm afraid - and you'll findyou'll have to go back home whether you mean to or not.""Don't be so mysterious, George!" said Julian, impatiently. "What is this strange plan? You'd bettertell us, even if we're not in it. Can't you trust us?""Yes, of course. But you might try to stop me," said George, looking sulky.
　　"Then you'd certainly better tell us," said Julian feeling uneasy. George was such a madcap once shegot ideas into her head. Goodness knows what she might do!
　　35
　　But George wouldn't say another word. Julian gave it up at last, but secretly made up his mind not tolet George out of his sight that day. If she was going to carry out some wild plan, then she wouldhave to do it under his, Julian's, eye!
　　But George didn't seem to be carrying out any wild plan. She bathed again with the others, went for awalk with them, and went for a row on the sea. She didn't want to go to Kirrin Island, so the othersdidn't press her, thinking that she didn't want to be out of sight of the beach in case Edgar came witha message from her father.
　　It was quite a pleasant day. The children bought sausage rolls again, and fruit, and picnicked on thebeach. Timmy had a large and juicy bone from the butcher's.
　　"I've got a bit of shopping to do," said George, about tea-time. "You others go and see if Mrs.
　　Stick is getting some tea for us, and I'll fly down to the shops and get what I want."Julian pricked up his ears at once. Was George sending them off so that she could be alone to carryout this mysterious plan of hers?
　　"I'll come with you," said Julian, getting up. "Dick can tackle Mrs. Stick for once, and take Timmywith him."
　　"No, you go," said George. "I won't be long."But Julian was determined not to go. In the end they all went with George, for Dick did not want toface Mrs. Stick without Julian or George.
　　George went into the little general shop and got a new battery for her torch. She bought two boxes ofmatches, and a bottle of methylated spirit.
　　"Whatever do you want that for?" said Anne in surprise.
　　"Oh, it might come in useful," said George, and said no more.
　　They all went back to Kirrin Cottage. Tea was actually on the table! True, it was not a thrilling tea,being merely bread and jam and a pot of hot tea - still it was there, and was eatable.
　　It rained that evening. The children sat round the table and played cards. Their hearts were lighternow that they had had good news of George's mother. In the middle of the game Julian got up andrang the bell. The others stared at him in the greatest surprise.
　　"What are you ringing the bell for?" asked George, her eyes wide with astonishment.
　　"To tell Mrs. Stick to bring some supper," said Julian, with a grin. But no one answered the bell.
　　So Julian rang again and then again.
　　36
　　The kitchen door opened at last and Mrs. Stick came up the passage, evidently in a bad temper.
　　She came into the sitting-room.
　　"You stop ringing that bell!" she said, angrily. "I'm not answering any bells rung by you.""I rang it to tell you that we wanted some supper," said Julian, "And to say that if you would rather Icame and got it myself from the larder - with Timmy - as I did last night, I'll come with pleasure. Butif not, you can bring a decent supper to us yourself.""If you come stealing things out of my larder again, I'll - I'll . . ." began Mrs. Stick.
　　"You'll call in the police!" Julian finished for her. "Do. That would please us very much. I can see ourlocal policeman taking down all the details in his notebook. I could give him quite a few."Mrs. Stick muttered something rude under her breath, glared at Julian as if she could kill him, andwent off down the passage again. By the sound of the clattering and crashing of crockery in thekitchen it was plain that Mrs. Stick was getting some sort of supper for them, and Julian grinned tohimself as he dealt out the cards.
　　Supper was not as good as the night before, but it was not bad. It was a little cold ham, cheese and theremains of a milk pudding. There was also a plate of cooked meat for Timmy.
　　George looked at it sharply. "Take that away," she said. "I bet you've poisoned it again. Take itaway!"
　　"No. On the contrary, leave it here," said Julian. "I'll take it down to the local chemist tomorrow andget him to test it. If, as George thinks, it's poisoned, the chemist might have a lot of interesting thingsto tell us."
　　Mrs. Stick took the meat away without a word. "Horrible woman!" said George, pulling Timothyclose to her. "How I hate her! I feel so afraid for Timmy."Somehow that spoilt the evening. As it grew dark the children became sleepy. "It's ten o'clock,"said Julian. "Bed, I think, everyone! Anne ought to have gone long ago. She isn't nearly old enoughto stay up as late as this."
　　"Well!" began Anne, indignantly. "I'm nearly as old as George, aren't I? I can't help being younger,can I?"
　　"All right, all right!" said Julian laughing. "I shan't make you go off to bed by yourself, don't worry.
　　We all keep together in this house while the Sticks are about. Come on! We'll go now, shall we?"37
　　The children were tired. They had swum, walked and rowed that day. Julian tried to keep awake alittle while, but he too fell asleep very quickly.
　　He awoke with a jump, thinking that he had heard a noise. But everything was quiet. What could thenoise have been? Was it one of the Sticks creeping about? No - it couldn't be that, or Tim would havebarked the house down. Then what was it? Something must have woken him.
　　"I suppose it's not old George doing anything about that plan of hers!" thought Julian, suddenly.
　　He sat up, He felt about for his dressing-gown and put it on. Without waking Dick he crept to thegirls' room, and switched on his torch to see that they were all right.
　　Anne was in her bed, sleeping peacefully. But George's bed was empty. George's clothes were gone!
　　"Blow!" said Julian, under his breath. "Where has she gone? I bet she's run away to find where hermother is!"
　　His torch picked out a white envelope pinned to George's pillow. He stepped softly over to it.
　　It had his name printed on it in bold letters. "JULIAN." Julian ripped it open and read it.
　　"Dear JULIAN," said the note,
　　"Don't be angry with me, please. I daren't stay in Kirrin Cottage any longer in case the Stickssomehow poison Timmy. You know that would break my heart. So I've gone to live by myself on ourisland till Mother and Father come back. Please leave a note for Father and tell him to ask Jim to sailnear Kirrin Island with his little red flag flying from the mast as soon as they are back.
　　Then I'll come home. You and Dick and Anne must go back to your own parents now I've gone.
　　It would be silly to stay at Kirrin Cottage with the Sticks now I'm not there.
　　Love from GEORGE."
　　Julian read the note through. "Well, why didn't I guess that was her plan!" he said to himself.
　　"That's why we didn't come into it! She meant to go off by herself with Timmy. I can't let her do that.
　　She can't live all by herself on Kirrin Island for so long. She might fall ill. She might slip on a rockand hurt herself, and no one would ever know!". The boy was really worried about the determinedlittle girl. He wondered what to do. That noise he heard must have been made by George. So shecouldn't have got a very long start really. If he tore down to the beach, George might still be there,and he could stop her.
　　38
　　So, in his dressing gown, he ran down the front path, out of the gate, and took the road to the beach.
　　The rain had stopped, and the stars were out. But it was not at all a light night.
　　"How can George expect to get through those rocks in the dark," he thought. "She's mad! She'll strikeher boat on a rock, and sink."
　　He tore on in the darkness, talking aloud to himself. "No wonder she wanted a new battery for hertorch, and matches - and I suppose the methylated spirit was for her little cooking stove!
　　Why ever couldn't she tell us? It would have been fun to go with her."He came to the beach. He saw the light of a torch where George kept her boat. He ran to it, his feetsinking in the soft wet sand.
　　"George! Idiot! You're not to go off like this all alone, in the dead of night!" called Julian.
　　George was pushing her boat out into the water. She jumped when she heard Julian's voice. "Youcan't stop me!" she said. "I'm just off!"But Julian caught hold of the boat, as he waded up to his waist in the water. "George, listen to me!
　　You can't go like this. You'll strike a rock. Come back!""No," said George, getting cross. "You can go back to your own home, Julian. I shall be all right.
　　Let go of my boat!"
　　"George, why didn't you tell me your plan?" said Julian, almost swept off his feet by a wave.
　　"Dash these waves! I shall have to get into the boat."He climbed in. He could not see George, but he felt quite certain she was glaring at him. Timmylicked his wet legs.
　　"You're spoiling everything," said George, with a break in her voice that meant she was upset.
　　"I'm not, silly!" said Julian, in a gentle voice. "Listen! - you come back to Kirrin Cottage with menow, George. And I'll faithfully promise you something. Tomorrow we'll all go to the island withyou. See? The whole lot of us. Why shouldn't we? Your mother said we could spend a week there,anyway, didn't she? We shall be out of the reach of those horrible Sticks. We shall enjoy ourselves,and have a marvellous time. So will you come back now, George, and let us go together tomorrow?"
8.乔治的计划
　　乔治的计划
　　斯蒂克太太无意中听到了电话里的对话——至少她听到了乔治这边的声音。她知道乔治的妈妈好多了，她的爸爸要等她妈妈出院后才能回来，出院大概在十天以后。在此之前，斯蒂克一家会玩得很开心，这是毫无疑问的！
　　乔治突然发现她的食欲恢复了。她狼吞虎咽地吃着培根，用一片面包把盘子刮得干干净净。她喝了三杯茶，然后心满意足地往后一仰。
　　“我感觉好多了。”她说。安妮抓住了她的手，得知婶婶的病就要好了，她太高兴了。如果没有讨厌的斯蒂克一家，他们会过得很愉快。接着，乔治却说了些让朱利安生气的话。
　　“既然我知道妈妈的病就要好了，我和蒂米就足以对付斯蒂克一家了。所以我想让你们三个回家，在没有我的情况下度过假期，我不会有事的。”
　　“别再说了，乔治，”朱利安说，“我们之前已经吵过一次了。我们主意已定不会改变的，就像你一样。你这样真让我生气。”
　　“好吧，”乔治说，“我告诉过你们，我有一个计划，你们不能参与其中，不管你们是否愿意，最后你们都得回家。”
　　“别那么神秘，乔治！”朱利安不耐烦地说，“这个奇怪的计划是什么？即使我们不在其中，你也最好告诉我们。难道你不相信我们吗？”
　　“当然相信。但你们可能阻止我实施计划。”乔治说，看起来有些愠怒的样子。
　　“那你最好告诉我们。”朱利安不安地说。一旦乔治脑子里有了主意，她就会很狂妄，天知道她会做出什么事！
　　但乔治一声不吭，朱利安最终放弃了，但他暗自下定决心，那一整天都不让乔治离开他的视线。如果她要执行什么疯狂的计划，那么她就必须在朱利安的监视之下进行！
　　不过乔治似乎没有任何执行疯狂计划的迹象，她和其他人一样洗了个澡，和他们一起散步，在海上划船。她没有去科林岛，其他人也没有催促她。大家认为她之所以不想离开海滩，是怕错过埃德加带来她爸爸的消息。
　　这是相当愉快的一天，孩子们又买了香肠卷和水果，在海滩上野餐，蒂米啃着一根从肉铺买来的又大又有肉的骨头。
　　“我要去商店买点东西，”快吃茶点的时候，乔治说，“你们其他人去看看斯蒂克太太是不是在给我们做茶点，我很快就回来。”
　　朱利安立刻警觉起来：乔治是想支走他们，好去执行她那神秘的计划吗？
　　“我和你一起去。”朱利安说着站了起来，“迪克可以带上蒂米一起去对付一次斯蒂克太太。”
　　“不，还是你去吧，”乔治说，“我很快就回来。”
　　但朱利安执意不去，最后他们都和乔治一起去了，因为迪克不想在没有朱利安和乔治的情况下，独自面对斯蒂克太太。
　　乔治走进小杂货店，为她的手电筒买了一块新电池，还买了两盒火柴和一瓶燃料酒精。
　　“你买这些东西干什么？”安妮惊讶地问道。
　　“哦，也许会有用的。”之后，乔治便不再说话。
　　他们都回到了科林庄园。茶点竟然摆在桌子上了！当然，这算不上美味的茶点，只不过是面包、果酱和一壶热茶而已，但能将就着吃。
　　那天晚上下雨了，孩子们围坐在桌旁打牌。听到范妮婶婶的好消息，他们的心情轻松了许多。打牌进行到一半时，朱利安站起来按响了饭铃，其他人惊奇地盯着他。
　　“你按铃干什么？”乔治吃惊地瞪大了眼睛问道。
　　“叫斯蒂克太太拿些晚饭来，”朱利安笑着说，但是没有人应答，朱利安就一遍又一遍地按铃。
　　厨房的门终于开了，斯蒂克太太沿走廊过来了，很显然她心情不好，她走进起居室。
　　“你们别再按铃了！”她生气地说，“你们按铃我不想回复。”
　　“我按铃是想告诉你我们要吃晚饭，”朱利安说，“如果你愿意的话，我就带着蒂米亲自去储藏室里拿，就像昨晚那样，我很乐意去。如果你不愿意，就送一顿像样的晚饭来。”
　　“如果你再从我的储藏室里偷东西，我就……我就……”
　　“你会报警的！”朱利安替她说完，“报警吧，我们欢迎你这样做。我们当地的警察会在他的笔记本上记下所有的细节——我可以给他提供不少细节呢。”
　　斯蒂克太太低声咕哝了几句粗鲁的话，怒视着朱利安，好像要杀了他似的，然后便走过走廊。紧接着，厨房里传来锅碗瓢盆碰撞的声音，很显然，斯蒂克太太在为他们做晚饭。朱利安出了一张牌后独自笑了。
　　晚饭不像前一晚那么好，但也不坏。那是一小块冷火腿、奶酪和剩下的牛奶布丁，还有一盘给蒂米吃的熟肉。
　　乔治用锐利的目光审视着那块肉，“把它拿走，”她说，“我敢打赌你又下毒了，把它拿走！”
　　“别拿走，把它留下，”朱利安说，“我明天就把它拿到当地药房去化验。如果真的有毒，药剂师可能会告诉我们很多有趣的事情呢。”
　　斯蒂克太太一句话没说就把肉拿走了。
　　“多么可怕的女人！”乔治把蒂米拉到她身边说，“我恨透她了！
　　我真为蒂米担心啊。”
　　这件事把整个晚上搞砸了。天渐渐黑了，孩子们都困了，“十点了，”朱利安说，“大家睡觉吧，安妮早就该睡觉了，她还小，不能这么晚睡觉。”
　　“不！”安妮生气地说，“我几乎和乔治一样大，不是吗？我也不愿意小啊！”
　　“好了，好了！”朱利安笑着说，“我不会让你一个人去睡觉的，别担心。有斯蒂克一家在，我们都待在一起。来吧！我们现在就去睡觉，好吗？”
　　孩子们累了，白天他们游泳、散步还划了船。朱利安不想马上睡去，但他也很快睡着了。
　　夜里，他猛然惊醒，朱利安好像听到了什么声响，但一切都很安静。那是什么声音呢？是斯蒂克家的人爬进来了吗？不，果真如此，蒂米会狂吠不止的。那么是什么呢？一定有什么东西把他吵醒了。
　　“不会是乔治在实施她的计划吧？”这个念头突然闪现在朱利安的脑海里。他坐起来，摸到自己的睡衣穿上。他没有叫醒迪克，蹑手蹑脚地走到女孩们的房间，打开手电筒，看看她们是否安然无恙。
　　安妮躺在床上，安详地睡着，但是乔治的床是空的，她的衣服都不见了！
　　“糟糕！”朱利安低声说，“她去哪里了？我敢打赌她是跑去找她妈妈了！”
　　借助手电筒的光亮，他发现一个白色信封别在乔治的枕头上，于是轻轻地走过去。
　　信封上面用粗体字写着他的名字“朱利安”，朱利安把信封撕开读了起来，纸条上写道：
　　亲爱的朱利安：
　　请不要生我的气。为了防止斯蒂克一家人毒害蒂米，我不敢继续住在科林庄园了。你知道如果蒂米被毒死了，我会伤心死的。所以我独自一人去我们的岛上住了，直到父母回来。请给我爸爸留张纸条，告诉他，他们一回来，就让吉姆驾船在科林岛附近航行，一看到桅杆上飘扬的小红旗，我就回家了。既然我走了，你、迪克和安妮必须回到你父母身边去。我不在家，你们与斯蒂克一家待在科林庄园是愚蠢的行为。
　　爱你的乔治
　　朱利安通读了这封信，“哎呀，为什么我没有想到她的计划是这样呢？”他心想，“这就是为什么计划里没有我们的原因，她打算和蒂米单独出去。我不能让她那样做，她不能一个人在科林岛上住这么长时间，她可能会生病，她可能会在礁石上滑倒伤到自己，而且没人会知道！”
　　朱利安真的很担心这个执拗的小女孩，但不知道该怎么办。他听到的声音一定是乔治发出的，所以她肯定没有走远。如果他追向海滩，乔治可能还在那儿，他可以阻止她。
　　于是，朱利安穿着睡衣，沿着庭院的小路，冲出大门，奔向了去海边的路。雨停了，星星出来了，但这并不是一个明亮的夜晚。
　　“乔治怎么能指望在黑暗中穿过那些礁石呢，”他想，“她疯了！
　　她的船会触礁沉没的！”
　　他在黑暗中狂奔，自言自语：“难怪她为手电筒换上了新电池，还买了火柴。我想燃料酒精是为她的小炉灶准备的！她为什么不能告诉我们呢？和她一起去会很有趣啊。”
　　他来到海滩，看见一个手电筒的光亮，那正是乔治的小船所在的位置。他跑过去，双脚陷在松软潮湿的沙子里。
　　“乔治！你个白痴！你不能在夜深人静的时候一个人走！”朱利安叫道。
　　乔治把她的船推入水中。她听到朱利安的声音吓了一跳，“你不要阻止我！”她说，“我开船了！”
　　但朱利安抓住了船，他涉水到齐腰深，“乔治，听我说！你不能这样走，你会触礁的。跟我回去！”
　　“不，”乔治生气地说，“你可以回家了，朱利安。我不会有事的。放开我的船！”
　　“乔治，为什么你不把你的计划告诉我们呢？”朱利安问道，他几乎被一股海浪冲倒，“该死的海浪！我得上船去。”
　　他爬上了船，不过看不见乔治，但他感觉到她肯定在瞪着他。
　　蒂米舔着他那湿漉漉的双腿。
　　“你把一切都毁了。”乔治说，她的声音突然变了，这意味着她很烦乱。
　　“我没有，小傻瓜。”朱利安温和地说，“听着，乔治，你现在跟我一起回科林庄园。我向你保证，明天我们将和你一起去那个岛上。明白吗？我们所有人都去，为什么不呢？你妈妈不是说过我们可以在那里待上一个星期吗？让我们远离讨厌的斯蒂克一家，我们将玩得很开心。乔治，现在跟我回去，明天我们一起去好吗？”
Chapter Nine AN EXCITING NIGHT
Chapter Nine AN EXCITING NIGHT
　　THERE was a silence, except for the waves splashing round the boat. Then George's voice came outof the darkness, lifted joyfully.
　　"Oh Julian - do you really mean it? Will you really come with me? I was afraid I'd get into trouble fordoing this, because Father said I must stay at Kirrin Cottage till he came back - and you know how hehates disobedience. But I knew if I stayed there, you would too - and I didn't want you to bemiserable with those horrid Sticks - so I thought I'd come away. I didn't think you'd come too,because of getting into trouble! I never even thought of asking you.""You're a very stupid person sometimes, aren't you, George?" said Julian. "As if we'd care aboutgetting into trouble, so long as we were all together, sticking by one another! Of course we'll comewith you - and I'll take all the responsibility for this escape, and tell your father it's my fault.""Oh no you won't," said George, quickly. "I shall say it was my idea. If I do wrong, I'm not afraid toown up to it. You know that."
　　"Well, we won't argue that now," said Julian. "We shall have at least a week or ten days on KirrinIsland to do all the arguing we want to. The thing is - let's get back now, wake up the others for a bit,and have a nice quiet talk in the dead of night about this plan of yours. I must say it's a very, verygood idea!"
　　George was overjoyed. "I feel as if I could hug you, Julian," she said. "Where are the oars? Oh, herethey are! The boat's floated quite a long way out."She rowed strongly back to the shore. Julian jumped out and pulled the boat up the beach, withGeorge's help. He shone his torch into the boat and gave an exclamation.
　　"You've quite a nice little store of things here," he said. "Bread and ham and butter and stuff.
　　How did you manage to get them without old Mr. Stick seeing you tonight? I suppose you slippeddown and got them out of the larder?" "
　　"Yes, I did," said George. "But there was no one in the kitchen tonight. Perhaps Mr. Stick has gone tosleep upstairs. Or maybe he has gone back to his ship. Anyway, there was no one there when I creptdown, not even Stinker."
　　40
　　"We'd better leave them here," said Julian. "Stuff them into that locker and shut down the lid. No onewill guess there's anything there. We'll have to bring down a lot more stuff if we're all going to liveon the island. Golly, this is going to be fun!"The children made their way back to the house, feeling thrilled and excited. Julian's wet dressing-gown flapped round his legs, and he pulled it up high to be out of the way. Timothy gambolled round,not seeming at all surprised at the night's doings.
　　When they got back to the house they woke the other two, who listened in astonishment to what hadhappened that night. Anne was so excited to think that they were all going to live on the island thatshe raised her voice in joy.
　　"Oh! That's the loveliest thing that could happen! Oh, I do think . . .""Shut up!" said three furious voices in loud whispers. "You'll wake the Sticks!""Sorry!" whispered Anne. "But oh - it's so terribly, awfully exciting."They began to discuss their plans. "If we go for a week or ten days, we must take plenty of stores,"said Julian.
　　"The thing is - can we possibly find food enough for so long? Even if we entirely empty the larder Idoubt if that would be enough for a week or so. We all seem such hungry people, somehow.""Julian," said George, suddenly remembering something, "I know what we'll do! Mother has a store-cupboard in her room. She keeps dozens and dozens of tins of food there, in case we ever get snowedup in the winter, and can't go to the village. That has happened once or twice you know. And I knowwhere Mother keeps the key! Can't we open the cupboard and get out some tins?""Of course!" said Julian, delighted. "I know Aunt Fanny wouldn't mind. And anyway, we can make alist of what we take and replace them for her, if she does mind. It will be my birthday soon, and I amsure to get money then."
　　"Where's the key?" whispered Dick.
　　"Let's go into Mother's room, and I'll show you where she keeps it," said George. "I only hope shehasn't taken it with her."
　　But George's mother had felt far too ill when she left home to think of cupboard keys. Georgefumbled at the back of a drawer in the dressing-table and brought out two or three keys tied 41together with thin string. She fitted first one and then another into a cupboard set in the wall. Thesecond one opened the door.
　　Julian shone his torch into the cupboard. It was filled with tins of food of all kinds, neatly arranged onthe shelves.
　　"Golly!" said Dick, his eyes gleaming. "Soup - tins of meat - tins of fruit - tinned milk - sardines- tinned butter - biscuits - tinned vegetables! There's everything we want here!""Yes," said Julian, pleased. "It's fine. We'll take all we can carry. Is there a sack or two anywhereabout, George, do you know?"
　　Soon the tins were quietly packed into two sacks. The cupboard door was shut and locked again.
　　The children stole to their own rooms once more.
　　"Well, that's the biggest problem solved - food," said Julian. "We'll raid the larder too, and take whatbread there is - and cake. What about water, George? Is there any on the island?""Well, I suppose there is some in that old well," said George, thinking, "but as there's no bucket oranything, we can't get any. I was taking a big container of fresh water with me - but we'd better filltwo or three more now you are all coming! I know where there are some, quite clean and new."So they filled some containers with fresh water, and put them with the sacks, ready to take to theboat. It was so exciting doing all these things in the middle of the night! Anne could hardly keep hervoice down to a whisper, and it was a wonder that Timothy didn't bark, for he sensed the excitementof the others.
　　There was a tin of cakes in the larder, freshly made, so those were added to the heap that was formingin the front garden. There was a large joint of meat too, and George wrapped it in a cloth and put thatwith the heap, telling Timmy in a fierce voice that if he so much as sniffed at it she would leave himbehind!
　　"I've got my little stove for boiling water on, or heating up anything," whispered George. "It's in theboat. That's what I bought the methylated spirit for, of course. You didn't guess, did you?
　　And the matches for lighting it. I say - what about candles? We can't use our torches all the time, thebatteries would soon run out."
　　They found a pound of candles in the kitchen cupboard, a kettle, a saucepan, some old knives andforks and spoons, and a good many other things they thought they might possibly want. They 42also came across some small bottles of ginger-beer, evidently stored for their own use by the Sticks.
　　"All bought out of my mother's money!" said George. "Well, we'll take the ginger-beer too. It will benice to drink it on a hot day."
　　"Where are we going to sleep at night?" said Julian. "In that ruined part of the old castle, where thereis just one room with a roof left, and walls?""That's where I planned to sleep," said George. "I was going to make my bed of some of the heatherthat grows on the island, covered by a rug or two, which I've got down in the boat.""We'll take all the rugs we can find," said Julian. "And some cushions for pillows. I say, isn't thissimply thrilling? I don't know when I've felt so excited. I feel like a prisoner escaping to freedom!
　　Won't the Sticks be amazed when they find us gone!""Yes - we'll have to decide what to say to them," said George, rather soberly. "We don't want themsending people after us to the island, making us come back. I don't think they should know we'vegone there."
　　"We'll discuss that later," said Dick. "The thing is to get everything to the boat while it's dark. It willsoon be dawn."
　　"How are we going to get all this down to George's boat?" said Anne, looking at the enormous pile ofgoods by the light of her torch. "We'll never be able to carry them all!"Certainly it looked a great pile. Julian had an idea, as usual. "Are there any barrows in the shed?"he asked George. "If we could pile the things into a couple of barrows, we could easily takeeverything in one journey. We could wheel the barrows along on the sandy side of the road so thatwe don't make any noise."
　　"Oh, good idea!" said George, delighted. "I wish I'd thought of that before. I had to make about fivejourneys to and from the boat when I took my own things. There are two barrows in the shed. We'llget them. One has a squeaky wheel, but we'll hope no one hears it."Stinker heard the squeak, as he lay in a corner of Mrs. Stick's room. He pricked up his ears andgrowled softly. He did not dare to bark, for he was afraid of bringing Timothy up. Mrs. Stick did nothear the growl. She slept soundly, not even stirring. She had no idea what was going on downstairs.
　　43
　　The things were all stowed into the boat. The children didn't like leaving them there unguarded.
　　In the end they decided to leave Dick there, sleeping on the rugs. They stood thinking for a momentbefore they went back without Dick.
　　"I do hope we've remembered all we shall want," said George, wrinkling up her forehead. "Golly- I know! We haven't remembered a tin-opener - nor a thing to take off the tops of the ginger-beerbottles. They've got those little tin lids that have to be forced off by an opener.""We'll put those in our pockets when we get back to the house and find them," said Julian. "Iremember seeing some in the sideboard drawer. Good-bye, Dick. We'll be down very early to rowoff. We must get some bread at the baker's as soon as he opens, because we've got hardly any, andwe'll see if we can pick up a very large bone at the butcher's for Timmy. George has got a bag ofbiscuits in the boat for him too."
　　The three of them set off back to the house with Timmy, leaving Dick curled up comfortably on therugs. He soon fell asleep again, his face upturned to the stars that would soon fade from the sky.
　　The others talked about what to tell the Sticks. "I think we won't tell them anything," said Julian, atlast. "I don't particularly want to tell them deliberate lies, and I'm certainly not going to tell them thetruth. I know what we'll do - there is a train that leaves the station about eight o'clock, which wouldbe the one we'd catch if we were going back to our own home. We'll find a timetable, leave it open onthe dining-room table, as if we'd been looking up a train, and then we'll all set off across the moor atthe back of the house, as if we were going to the station.""Oh yes - then the Sticks will think we've run away, and gone to catch the train back home," saidAnne. "They will never guess we've gone to the island.""That's a good idea," said George, pleased. "But how shall we know when Father and Mother getback?"
　　"Is there anyone you could leave a message with - somebody you could really trust?" asked Julian.
　　George thought hard. "There's Alf the fisher-boy," she said at last. "He used to look after Tim for mewhen I wasn't allowed to have him in the house. I know he'd not give us away.""We'll call on Alf before we go then," said Julian. "Now, let's look for that time-table and lay it openon the table at the right place."
　　44
　　They hunted for the time-table, found the right page, and underlined the train they hoped that theSticks would think they were catching. They found the tin and bottle openers, and put them into theirpockets. Julian found two or three more boxes of matches too. He thought two would not last longenough.
　　By this time dawn had come and the house was being flooded with early sunshine. "I wonder if thebaker is open," said Julian. "We might as well go and see. It's about six o'clock."They went to the baker. He was not open, but the new loaves had already been made. The baker wasoutside, sunning himself. He had baked his bread at night, ready to sell it new-made in the morning.
　　He grinned at the children.
　　"Up early today," he said. "What, you want some of my loaves - how many? Six! Good gracious,whatever for?"
　　"To eat," said George, grinning. Julian paid for six enormous loaves, and they went to the butcher's.
　　His shop was not open either, but the butcher himself was sweeping the path outside.
　　"Could we buy a very big bone for Timmy, please?" asked George. She got an enormous one, andTimmy looked at it longingly. Such a bone would last him for days, he knew!
　　"Now," said Julian, as they set off to the boat, "we'll pack these things into the boat, then go back tothe house, and make a noise so that the Sticks know we're there. Then we'll set off across the moors,and hope the Sticks will think we are making for the train."They woke Dick, who was still sleeping peacefully in the boat, and packed in the bread and bone.
　　"Take the boat into the next cove," said George. "Can you do that? We shall be hidden there fromanyone on the beach then. The fishermen are all out in their boats, fishing. We shan't be seen, if weset off in about an hour's time. We'll be back by then."They went back to the house and made a noise as if they were just getting up. George whistled toTimmy, and Julian sang at the top of his voice. Then, with a great banging of doors they set out downthe path and cut across the moors, in full sight of the kitchen window.
　　"Hope the Sticks won't notice Dick isn't with us," said Julian, seeing Edgar staring out of the window.
　　"I expect they'll think he's gone ahead."They kept to the path until they came to a dip, where they were hidden from any watcher at KirrinCottage. Then they took another path that led them, unseen, to the cove where Dick had taken theboat. He was there, waiting anxiously for them.
　　45
　　"Ahoy there!" yelled Julian, in excitement. "The adventure is about to begin."
9.令人兴奋的夜晚
　　令人兴奋的夜晚
　　一阵沉默，只有海浪拍击小船的声音。这时，黑暗中传来乔治惊喜的声音。
　　“哦，朱利安，你是认真的吗？你们真的要和我一起去吗？我担心这样做会惹上麻烦，因为爸爸说我必须待在科林庄园等他回来。
　　你知道他最讨厌不听话的孩子。但我知道如果我待在家里，你们也会的，我不想让你们受斯蒂克一家人的气，所以我想我还是走吧。
　　我没想到你们也会跟我去，我怕惹麻烦，从没想过征求一下你们的意见。”
　　“你有时候很蠢，乔治。”朱利安说，“只要我们团结起来，互相支持，就没有什么可怕的！我们当然要跟你一起去，我要为这次离家出走负全部责任，告诉你爸爸这全是我的错。”
　　“哦，不，不行。”乔治立刻说，“我会说这是我的主意。如果我做错了，我不怕认错，这你知道的。”
　　“我们现在就不争论了，”朱利安说，“我们在科林岛上至少要待一个星期或十天，我们有的是时间去争论。当务之急是我们现在回去，叫醒其他人，连夜谈论你的这个计划。我必须说这是一个非常好的主意！”
　　乔治喜出望外，“我好想拥抱你，朱利安，”她说，“桨在哪里？
　　噢，在这里！船已经漂流很远了。”
　　她使劲把船划到岸边。朱利安跳了出来，和乔治一起把船拖上岸。他把手电筒照进船里，发出一声惊叫。
　　“你这里有好多东西呀，”他说，“面包、火腿、黄油等等。今晚你是怎么弄到的？斯蒂克先生没有发现吗？我猜你是溜下去，从储藏室弄来的，对吧？”
　　“是的。”乔治说，“但今晚厨房里一个人也没有。斯蒂克先生可能去楼上睡觉了，也许他已经回到了船上。总之，当我爬下去的时候，那儿一个人也没有，甚至连臭鬼也不在。”
　　“我们最好把它们留在这里，”朱利安说，“把它们塞进储物柜，盖上盖子，没人会想到那里有什么东西。如果我们都住在岛上，我们就得把更多的东西带下来。天哪，这一定会很有趣的！”
　　他们向科林庄园走去，感到无比兴奋。朱利安那湿漉漉的睡衣，在他的腿上来回拍打着，他把睡衣提得高高的，以免碍事。回到家里，蒂米四处蹦蹦跳跳，似乎对夜里发生的一切一点也不感到惊讶。
　　来到孩子们住的小屋，他们叫醒了迪克和安妮。听着晚上刚刚发生的事，迪克和安妮惊讶极了。安妮一想到他们都要住在岛上，就激动得高声欢呼起来。
　　“哦，去岛上住太好了！我确实认为……”
　　“闭嘴！”三个愤怒的声音低声说，“你会吵醒斯蒂克一家的！”
　　“对不起！”安妮小声说道，“但这太刺激了，太令人兴奋了。”
　　他们开始讨论他们的计划，“如果我们去一个星期或十天，我们必须带足够的储备物品。”朱利安说。
　　“问题是，我们能找到足够的食物来维持这么长时间吗？即使我们把储物柜里的东西全部清空，恐怕也只能维持一周左右的时间，毕竟我们的饭量都很大。”
　　“朱利安，”乔治突然想起了一件事，说道，“我知道我们该怎么做！妈妈的房间里有一个壁橱，那里放了许多罐头食品，以防冬天下雪时，我们无法去村里购买食品，这种情况已经发生过一两次了。我知道妈妈把钥匙放在哪里，我们可以打开壁橱，拿出几罐罐头来！”
　　“好主意！”朱利安高兴地说，“我知道范妮婶婶不会介意的。不管怎样，如果她介意的话，我们可以列一个单子，把我们拿的东西给她补上。我的生日快到了，到时候我一定能拿到钱。”
　　“钥匙在哪里？”迪克低声问道。
　　“我们去妈妈的房间，我带你去看看她把钥匙放在哪儿了。”乔治说，“但愿她没有带走钥匙。”
　　乔治的妈妈是因为突然发病离开家的，怎么可能想到带走壁橱的钥匙呢？乔治在梳妆台上的抽屉后面摸索着，拿出两三把用细绳系在一起的钥匙。她先选了一把钥匙插进壁橱的锁孔里，接着又用另一把插进去，是第二把钥匙打开了锁。
　　朱利安用手电筒照进壁橱，里面装满了各种各样的罐头食品，整齐地排列在架子上。
　　“天哪！”迪克说，他的眼睛闪闪发光，“罐装糖、肉罐头、水果罐头、牛奶罐头、沙丁鱼罐头、黄油罐头、饼干罐头、蔬菜罐头！
　　我们想要的这里都有！”
　　“是的，”朱利安高兴地说，“太好了，我们把能带的东西都带上。乔治，你知道哪儿有袋子吗？”
　　很快，他们把罐头悄悄地装进了两个袋子里，重新关上橱柜门并锁好，之后，孩子们又溜回自己的房间去了。
　　“嗯，最大的问题——食物问题解决了，”朱利安说，“我们也去搜查一下储藏室，把那里的面包和蛋糕都拿走。水呢，乔治？岛上有水吗？”
　　“我想那口老井里有一些水，”乔治若有所思地说，“但没有桶之类的东西，我们无法得到水。我随身带着一大桶淡水，但我们最好再装满两三桶，因为你们都来了！我知道哪里有水，很新鲜，很干净。”
　　他们把水装进桶里，再装在麻袋里，准备带上船去。深更半夜做这些事情是多么令人兴奋啊！安妮几乎不能把自己的声音控制在耳语的范围内。令人惊奇的是，蒂米没有叫，因为它感觉到了孩子们的兴奋。
　　储藏室里有一些新做的蛋糕，这些蛋糕也被堆在前面的花园里。还有一大块肉，乔治用一块布把它包起来，和其他食物放在一起。她对蒂米严厉地说，如果它敢嗅一下那块肉，就不带它去岛上。
　　“我的小炉子是用来烧水的，也能用来加热任何东西。”乔治小声说，“炉子在船上，这就是我买燃料酒精的原因，你们没想到吧？
　　还有点燃炉子用的火柴。蜡烛怎么办？我们不能一直使用手电筒，电池很快就会用完的。”
　　他们在厨房的碗橱里找到了一捆蜡烛、一个水壶、一个平底锅、一些旧刀叉和勺子，还有许多他们认为可能用得着的东西。他们还发现了几小瓶姜汁汽水，很显然，姜汁汽水是斯蒂克太太藏起来供他们自家享用的。
　　“这些都是我妈妈花钱买的！”乔治说，“我们把汽水也带上，在大热天喝汽水一定很爽。”
　　“晚上我们去哪儿睡觉呢？”朱利安说，“去那座破旧的城堡里吗？那里只有一个房间，并且只剩下屋顶和墙壁了。”
　　“那就是我打算睡觉的地方，”乔治说，“我打算把岛上生长的石南花当床用，再铺上一两块毯子，毯子已经在船上了。”
　　“我们要带上所有能找到的毯子，”朱利安说，“再找一些垫子当枕头用。这太刺激了！我从来没这么兴奋过。我觉得自己像个越狱奔向自由的囚犯！不过，当斯蒂克一家发现我们离家出走的时候，他们会不会感到惊慌？”
　　“肯定会的。我们要想想跟他们说些什么。”乔治相当冷静地说，“我可不希望他们派人去我们的岛上，逼着我们回来。他们不能知道我们去了那里。”
　　“这些我们一会儿再谈，”迪克说，“当务之急是趁天黑把所有东西都放到船上去，天快亮了。”
　　“我们怎样才能把这些东西都弄到乔治的船上去呢？”安妮说着，用手电筒照了照那一大堆东西，“我们永远无法搬动它们！”
　　的确，这些东西看起来有一大堆。像往常一样，朱利安有了一个主意，“棚子里有手推车吗？”他问乔治，“如果我们能把这些东西放到两个手推车上，就能轻而易举地一次性带走所有的东西。我们可以沿路边的沙地推车走，这样就不会发出任何声响。”
　　“哦，好主意！”乔治高兴地说，“当初我怎么没想到呢？运送自己的东西时，我折腾了五个来回呢。棚子里有两辆手推车，我们这就去取。一个轮子会发出‘吱吱’的声响，但愿没有人听到。”
　　臭鬼躺在斯蒂克太太房间的角落里，听到了“吱吱”的声音。它竖起耳朵，轻声低吼了一下。它不敢叫，因为怕把蒂米引来。斯蒂克太太没有听到那声低吼。她睡得很香，连动也没动，她对楼下发生的事一无所知。
　　所有的东西都装到了船上，孩子们不想丢下那么多东西无人看管，最后他们决定把迪克留在那里，让他睡在船里看着东西。他们站在那里想了想还有没有落下什么东西，然后就留下迪克走了。
　　“但愿我们没有落下需要的东西，”乔治说着，皱起了眉头，“对了！我们忘了拿开罐器，还有打开汽水瓶盖子的开瓶器。瓶盖子上有小锡盖，必须用开瓶器才能打开。”
　　“我们回家找到以后就把它们放在口袋里。”朱利安说，“我记得在餐具柜的抽屉里看到过一些。再见，迪克，我们会尽早出发。等面包房一开门，我们就去弄些面包来，因为我们几乎没有面包了，我们还要去看看能不能在肉铺里为蒂米捡到一根大骨头。乔治在船上还为它准备了一袋饼干。”
　　他们三人带着蒂米回到了家，留下迪克舒舒服服地躺在地毯上。他仰着脸看着星星，不一会儿就睡着了，星星也很快从天空中消失了。
　　其他人讨论着如何告诉斯蒂克一家，“我想我们什么也不告诉他们。”朱利安最后说，“我不想告诉他们刻意的谎言，当然也不会告诉他们真相。我知道我们该怎么做。有一列火车大约八点离开车站，如果我们回家，就该乘坐这列火车。我们要找一张列车时刻表，把它摊开放在饭桌上，就好像我们是在查询车次，然后我们就从房子后面的旷野出发，好像我们要到车站去似的。”
　　“嗯，好的。斯蒂克一家就会以为我们坐火车回家了，”安妮说，“他们永远也想不到我们去了那个岛上。”
　　“好主意，”乔治高兴地说，“可是我们怎么知道爸爸妈妈什么时候回来呢？”
　　“你可以给谁留言呢？一个你真正信任的人？”朱利安问道。
　　乔治苦苦思索着。“有一个卖鱼的男孩，叫阿尔夫。”她最后说，“爸爸不允许蒂米在家里的时候，他就帮我照看它。我知道他不会出卖我们。”
　　“那我们走之前先去见见阿尔夫吧！”朱利安说，“现在，让我们去找列车时刻表，把它打开放在适当的位置。”
　　他们找到列车时刻表，翻到正确的一页，并在他们希望斯蒂克一家会认为他们要去搭车的那趟火车下面画了线。他们找到了开罐器和开瓶器，把它们放进了衣袋里。朱利安还找到了三盒火柴，他认为两盒不够用。
　　这时天已经亮了，屋子里洒满了阳光，“面包房该开门了吧？”朱利安说，“我们去看看，现在大约六点钟。”
　　他们去了面包店，还没有开门，但是新的面包已经做好了。面包师在外面晒太阳。他在夜里烤好了面包，准备早上卖。他对孩子们咧嘴一笑。
　　“早上好，想买面包吗？要多少？六块？天哪，要这么多干吗？”
　　“吃呗。”乔治笑着说。朱利安付了六块大面包的钱，就奔肉店走去。肉店也没开门，但卖肉的人正在外面打扫卫生。
　　“我们想给蒂米买一根大骨头。”乔治说。她买到了一根巨大的骨头，蒂米贪婪地看着，它知道这样一根骨头够它吃好几天了！
　　“现在，”当他们向船走去的时候，朱利安说，“我们把这些东西装上船，然后回到家里，弄出一些声响，让斯蒂克一家知道我们在家。然后我们就穿过旷野出发，但愿斯蒂克一家会认为我们是在赶火车。”
　　他们叫醒了还在船上安安静静睡着的迪克，然后，把面包和骨头都码放好。
　　“把船划到下一个海湾去，”乔治说，“你能做到吗？我们藏起来，不让海滩上的人看见，渔民们都在船上捕鱼。大约一小时后动身，到那时我们就回来了。”
　　他们回到家里，故意弄出声响，好像刚起床的样子。乔治向蒂米吹口哨，朱利安扯开嗓子唱歌。然后，随着关门的砰砰声，他们沿着小路出发，穿过沼泽地，从厨房的窗户那里可以看到他们的一举一动。
　　“但愿斯蒂克一家没有发现迪克不在我们身边，”见埃德加盯着窗外，朱利安说，“我想他们会认为迪克先走了。”
　　他们沿着小路一直走到一个低洼处，在这里科林庄园的任何人也看不见他们。然后他们踏上了去小海湾的路，迪克已经把船划到了那里，正在焦急地等待着他们。
　　“哇！”朱利安兴奋地喊道，“冒险就要开始了！”
Chapter Ten KIRRIN ISLAND ONCE MORE!
Chapter Ten KIRRIN ISLAND ONCE MORE!
　　THEY all clambered into the boat. Timothy leapt in lightly and ran to the prow, where he alwaysstood. His tongue hung out in excitement. He knew quite well that something was up - and he was init! No wonder he panted and wagged his tail hard.
　　"Off we go!" said Julian, taking the oars. "Sit over there a bit, Anne. The luggage is weighing downthe boat awfully the other end. Dick, sit by Anne to keep the balance better. That's right.
　　Off we go!"
　　And off they went in George's boat, rocking up and down on the waves. The sea was fairly calm, buta good breeze blew through their hair. The water splashed round the boat and made a nice gurgly,friendly noise. The children all felt very happy. They were on their own. They were escaping fromthe horrid Sticks. They were going to stay on Kirrin Island, with the rabbits and gulls and jackdaws.
　　"Doesn't that new-made bread smell awfully good?" said Dick, feeling very hungry as usual.
　　"Can we just grab a bit, do you think?"
　　"Yes, let's," said George. So they broke off bits of the warm brown crust, handed some to Julian, whowas rowing, and chewed the delicious new-made bread. Timmy got a bit too, but his was gone assoon as it went into his mouth.
　　"Timmy's funny," said Anne. "He never eats his food as we do - he seems to drink it - just takes itinto his mouth and swallows it, as if it was water!"The others laughed. "He doesn't drink his bones." said George. "He always eats those all right -chews on them for hours and hours. Don't you, Timothy?""Woof!" said Timmy, agreeing. He eyed the place where that enormous bone was, wishing he couldhave it now. But the children wouldn't let him. They were afraid it might go overboard, and thatwould be a pity.
　　"I don't believe anyone has noticed us going," said Julian. "Except Alf the fisher-boy, of course.
　　We told him about going to the island, Dick, but nobody else."46
　　They had called at Alf's house on their way to the cove. Alf was alone in the yard at the back.
　　His mother was away and his father was out fishing. They had told him their secret, and Alf hadnodded his tousled head and promised faithfully to tell nobody at all. He was evidently very proud atbeing trusted.
　　"If my mother and father come back, you must let us know," said George. "Sail as near the island asyou dare, and hail us. You can get nearer to it than anyone else.""I'll do that," promised Alf, wishing he could go with them.
　　"So, you see, Dick," said Julian, as he rowed out to the island, "if by any chance Aunt Fanny doesreturn sooner than we expect, we shall know at once and come back. I think we've plannedeverything very well."
　　"Yes, we have," said Dick. He turned and faced the island, which was coming nearer. "We shall soonbe there. Isn't George going to take the oars and guide the boat in?""Yes," said George. "We've come to the difficult bit now, where we've got to weave our way in andout of the different rocks that keep sticking up. Give me the oars, Ju."She took the oars, and the others watched in admiration as the girl guided the big boat skilfully in andout of the hidden rocks. She certainly was very clever. They felt perfectly safe with her.
　　The boat slid into the little cove. It was a natural harbour, with the water running up to a stretch ofsand. High rocks sheltered it. The children jumped out eagerly, and four pairs of willing hands tuggedthe boat quickly up the sand. .
　　"Higher up still," panted George. "You know what awful storms suddenly blow up in this bay.
　　We want to be sure the boat is quite safe, no matter how high the seas run."The boat soon lay on one side, high up the stretch of sand. The children sat down, puffing andblowing. "Let's have breakfast here," said Julian. "I don't feel like unloading all those heavy things atthe moment. We'll get what we want for breakfast, and have it here on this warm bit of sand."They got a loaf of new bread, some cold ham, a few tomatoes and a pot of jam. Anne found knivesand forks and plates. Julian opened two bottles of ginger-beer.
　　"Funny sort of breakfast," he said, setting the bottles down on the sand, "But simply gorgeous whenanyone is as hungry as we are."
　　47
　　They ate everything except about a third of the loaf. Timmy was given his bone and some of his ownbiscuits. He crunched up the biscuits at once, and then sat down contentedly to gnaw the fine bone.
　　"How nice to be Timmy - with no plate or knife or fork or cup to bother about," said Anne, lying onher back in the sun, feeling that she really couldn't eat anything more. "Oh, if we are always going tohave mixed-up meals like this on the island, I shall never want to go back. Who would have thoughtthat ham and jam and ginger-beer would go so well together?"Timmy was thirsty. He sat with his tongue hanging out wishing that George would give him a drink.
　　He didn't like ginger-beer.
　　George eyed him lazily.
　　"Oh Timmy - are you thirsty?" she said. "Oh dear, I feel as if I really can't get up! You'll have to waita few minutes, then I'll go to the boat and empty out some water for you."But Timothy couldn't wait. He went off to some nearby rocks, which were out of reach of the sea. Ina hole in one of them he found some rain-water, and he lapped it up eagerly. The children heard himlapping it, and laughed.
　　"Isn't Timmy clever?" murmured Anne. "I should never have thought of that."The children had been up half the night, and now they were full of good things, and were very sleepy.
　　One by one they fell asleep on the warm sand. Timothy eyed them in astonishment. It wasn't night-time! Yet here were all the children sleeping tightly. Well, well - a dog could always go to sleep tooat any time! So Timothy threw himself down beside George, put his head right on her middle, andclosed his eyes.
　　The sun was high when the little company awoke. Julian awoke first, then Dick, feeling very hotindeed, for the sun was blazing down. They sat up, yawning.
　　"Goodness!" said Dick, looking at his arms. "The sun has caught me properly. I shall be terribly soreby tonight. Did we bring any cream, Julian?""No. We never thought of it," said Julian. "Cheer up! You'll be burnt much more by the time this dayends. The sun's going to be hot - there's not a cloud in the sky!"They woke up the girls. George pushed Timmy's head off her tummy. "You give me nightmareswhen you put your heavy head there," she complained. "Oh, I say - we're on the island, aren't we? Fora moment I thought I was back in bed at Kirrin Cottage!"48
　　"Isn't it gorgeous? - here we are for ages, all by ourselves, with tons of nice things to eat, able to dojust what we like!" said Anne, contentedly.
　　"I guess the old Sticks are glad we've gone," said Dick. "Spotty Face will be able to loll in the sitting-room and read all our books, if he wants to.""And Stinker-dog will be able to wander all over the house and lie on anybody's bed without beingafraid that Timothy will eat him whole," said George. "Well, let him. I don't care about anything nowthat I've escaped."
　　It was fun to lie there and talk about everything. But soon Julian, who could never rest for long, oncehe was awake, got up and stretched himself.
　　"Come on!" he said to the others. "There is work to do, Lazy-Bones! Come along!""Work to do? What do you mean?" said George in astonishment.
　　"Well, we've got to unload the boat and pack everything somewhere where it won't get spoilt if therain happens to come," said Julian. "And we've got to decide exactly where we're going to sleep, andget the heather for our beds and pile the rugs on them. There's plenty to do!""Oh, don't let's do it yet," said Anne, not at all wanting to get up out of the warm sand. But the otherspulled her up, and together they all set to work to unload the boat.
　　"Let's go and have a look at the castle," said Julian. "And find the little room where we'll sleep.
　　It's the only one left whole, so it will have to be that one."They went right to the top of the inlet, climbed up on to the rocks and made their way towards the oldruined castle, whose walls rose up from the middle of the little island. They stopped to gaze at it.
　　"It's a fine old ruin," said Dick. "Aren't we lucky to have an island and a castle of our own!
　　Fancy, this is all ours!"
　　They gazed through a big broken-down archway, to old steps beyond. The castle had once had twofine towers, but now one was almost gone. The other rose high in the air, half-ruined. The blackjackdaws collected there, talking loudly. "Chack, chack, chack! Chack, chack, chack!""Nice birds," said Dick. "I like them. See the grey patch at the back of their heads, Anne? I wonder ifthey ever stop talking."
　　"I don't think so," said George. "Oh, look at the rabbits - tamer than ever!"49
　　The courtyard was full of big rabbits, who eyed them as they came near. It really seemed as if itwould be possible to pat them, they were so tame - but one by one they edged away as the childrenapproached.
　　Timothy was in a great state of excitement, and his tail quivered from end to end. Oh those rabbits!
　　Why couldn't he chase them? Why was George so difficult about rabbits? Why couldn't he makethem run a bit?
　　But George had her hand on his collar, and gave him a stern glance. "Now, Timothy, don't you dareto chase even the smallest of these rabbits. They're mine, every one o them.""Ours!" corrected Anne at once. She wanted to share in the rabbits, as well as in the castle and theisland.
　　"Ours!" said George. "Let's go and have a look at the little dark room where we'll spend the nights."They made their way to where the castle did not seen to be quite so ruined. They came to a doorwayand looked inside.
　　"Here it is!" said Julian, peeping in. "I shall have to use my torch. The windows are only slits here,and it's quite dark."
　　He turned on his torch - and the children all gazed into the old room where they proposed to storetheir goods and sleep.
　　George gave a loud exclamation. "Golly! We can't use this room! The roof has fallen in since lastsummer."
　　So it had. Julian's torch shone on to a heap of fallen stones, scattered all over the floor. It was quiteimpossible to use the old room now. In any case it might be dangerous to do so, for it looked as ifmore stones might fall at any moment.
　　"Blow!" said Julian. "What shall we do about this? We shall have to find somewhere else for astoring and sleeping-place!"
10.再登科林岛
　　再登科林岛
　　他们都爬上了小船，蒂米轻快地跳了上去，跑向船头，它总是站在那里。由于兴奋，它的舌头伸了出来。它很清楚，一定有什么事情即将发生，而它也参与其中！难怪它喘着粗气，使劲摇着尾巴。
　　“我们出发喽！”朱利安说着拿起桨，“安妮，坐在那边吧，行李把船的另一端压得很低；迪克，坐在安妮旁边来保持平衡，对，就这样。我们出发喽！”
　　他们坐着乔治的船，在海浪上颠簸前行。大海相当平静，时而一阵微风吹过他们的头发。水溅到船的周围，发出清脆悦耳的声音。孩子们都很兴奋，现在，他们独立了，逃离了可怕的斯蒂克一家人。他们要去科林岛上居住，与兔子、海鸥和寒鸦为伴。
　　“那块新做的面包闻起来好香啊！”迪克说，像往常一样感到很饿，“我们能不能掰点吃呢？”
　　“对，吃点。”乔治说。于是，他们掰下一些热乎乎的棕色面包，并且递给朱利安一些，朱利安边划船边咀嚼着新做的美味面包。蒂米也得到了一些，但它的面包一进嘴里就不见了。
　　“蒂米很有趣，”安妮说，“它从来不像我们那样吃东西，它似乎是在喝水，只是把食物放进嘴里咽下去，像喝水一样！”
　　其他人笑了。“它可不喝骨头。”乔治说，“它啃骨头的方式是正确的，总是咀嚼几个小时。是不是，蒂米？”
　　“汪！”蒂米表示同意。它注视着那根大骨头所在的地方，真想现在就得到它。但是孩子们不让它吃，因为他们担心骨头可能会掉进海里去。
　　“我觉得没有人注意到我们离家出走，”朱利安说，“当然，除了那个男孩阿尔夫。迪克，我们跟他说了要去科林岛，但没有跟别人说过。”
　　他们在去小海湾的路上去了阿尔夫家。阿尔夫蓬头垢面，独自一个人在后院。他妈妈不在家，爸爸出去捕鱼了。他们把去科林岛的秘密告诉了他，阿尔夫点点头，发誓不告诉任何人，他显然为自己受到信任而感到自豪。
　　“如果我父母回来，你必须通知我们，”乔治说，“尽量靠近科林岛，向我们招手。你可以接近科林岛，不允许别人靠近。”
　　“我会的。”阿尔夫说，他也想跟他们一起去。
　　“就是这样，迪克，”朱利安一边划向科林岛一边说，“要是范妮婶婶提前回来，我们马上就能知道，然后火速回家。我想我们把一切都计划得很好了。”
　　“是的。”迪克说。他转过身来，面对着那座越来越近的小岛，“我们很快就到那儿了。乔治不准备接桨把船划进去吗？”
　　“是的，”乔治说，“我们现在已经到了难行的海域，这里礁石林立，我们必须迂回前进。朱利安，把桨给我。”
　　乔治接过桨，其他人都钦佩地看着她熟练地把小船从暗礁里划了出来。她的确很聪明，他们觉得和她在一起很安全。
　　小船划进了小海湾。这是一个天然的港湾，水一直流到沙滩上，高高的礁石庇护着它。孩子们急切地跳下船，四双小手迅速地把船拖上沙滩。
　　“再往上拖一点，”乔治气喘吁吁地说，“你们不知道，在这个海湾里，风暴突然刮起来有多么可怕。不管海面有多高，我们都要确保船是安全的。”
　　小船很快就被斜放在高高的沙滩上。孩子们气喘吁吁地坐下来，“我们在这儿吃早餐吧，”朱利安说，“我现在不想卸下那些沉重的东西。我们先把早餐拿下来，在这温暖的沙滩上吃。”
　　他们取出了一块新面包，一些冷火腿，一些西红柿和一罐果酱，安妮找到了刀叉和盘子，朱利安打开了两瓶姜汁汽水。
　　“真是不一样的早餐，”他说着，把瓶子放在沙滩上，“但对饥肠辘辘的人来说就太棒了。”
　　他们把取下的东西都吃光了，但只吃了大约三分之一的面包。
　　蒂米得到了骨头和一些饼干。它立刻“嘎吱嘎吱”地吃起饼干来，然后心满意足地坐下来啃那根大骨头。
　　“不用盘子，不用刀叉，不用杯子，当狗真好啊。”安妮说道，她躺在阳光下，感觉自己再也吃不下了，“啊，如果我们在岛上总有这样的大杂烩吃，我就再也不想回去了。谁能想到火腿、果酱和姜汁汽水搭配在一起这么好吃呢？”
　　蒂米渴了，它耷拉着舌头坐在那里，希望乔治给它水喝，它不喜欢喝姜汁汽水。
　　乔治懒洋洋地瞅着它。
　　“哦，蒂米，你渴了吗？”她说，“哦，亲爱的，我觉得我真的起不来了！你得等几分钟，然后我到船上去给你倒些水来。”
　　但蒂米等不及了，它去了附近一些远离大海的礁石那里，发现其中一块礁石上的洞里有一些雨水，它急切地舔着。孩子们听见了舔水声，拍着手笑了起来。
　　“蒂米真聪明！”安妮低声说，“我根本就没想到这一点。”
　　孩子们忙活了大半个晚上，现在他们吃饱了，就犯困了。他们一个一个倒在温暖的沙滩上睡着了。蒂米惊奇地看着他们，现在不是睡觉的时候啊！可是所有的孩子都睡得很香甜，而狗可以随时睡觉！蒂米俯伏在乔治身边，把头靠在乔治的腰间，闭上了眼睛。
　　小伙伴们醒来的时候，太阳已经很高了。朱利安先醒了，然后是迪克。他感觉非常热，因为火辣辣的太阳正直射着他。他们坐了起来，连连打着呵欠。
　　“天哪！”迪克看着自己的胳膊说，“太阳烤红了我的胳膊，到了晚上，就会非常酸痛。朱利安，我们带防晒霜了吗？”
　　“没有。我们从没想过带防晒霜，振作起来！在这儿待到天黑的话，你会被晒得更厉害。太阳会更热，看，天上一丝云彩都没有！”
　　他们把女孩们叫醒。乔治把蒂米的头从肚子上推下来。她抱怨说：“当你把你那沉重的头放在我肚子上的时候，我就会做噩梦。
　　哦，我们是在岛上吗？有那么一会儿，我还以为自己又回到了科林庄园的床上呢！”
　　“这不是很美吗？我们可以在这里住上很长时间，只有我们自己，有很多好吃的东西，可以做我们喜欢做的事！”安妮心满意足地说。
　　迪克说：“我想，斯蒂克一家巴不得我们离家出走呢，这下埃德加可以懒洋洋地躺在起居室里，翻看我们所有的书了。”
　　“臭鬼会在屋子里到处乱窜，躺在任何人的床上，不用担心蒂米会把它整个吃掉。”乔治说道，“由它去吧。我已经逃出来了，什么都不在乎。”
　　躺在那里谈天说地很有趣。但不久，朱利安闲不住了，他站起来，伸伸懒腰。
　　“起来！”他对其他人说，“我们有事要做，懒骨头们！过来！”
　　“有事要做？什么意思？”乔治惊奇地问道。
　　朱利安说：“我们要把船上的东西卸下来，然后把所有的东西都放到不会被雨淋的地方。我们必须决定到底睡在哪里，把石南花放在床上，然后把地毯铺在上面。有很多事要做呢！”
　　“哦，我们先别做这些事情吧。”安妮说，她根本不想从温暖的沙滩上爬起来。但其他人把她拉了起来，他们一起动手卸船。
　　“我们去看看城堡吧，”朱利安说，“找到我们要睡觉的那个小房间。那是岛上唯一的房间了，所以我们只能住在那里。”
　　他们径直走到海湾顶上，爬上礁石，向那座破城堡走去。城堡的墙壁在小岛中央拔地而起，他们停下来注视着它。
　　“这废弃的城堡太好了。”迪克说，“我们拥有一座岛屿和一座自己的城堡，真是太幸运了！真想不到，这些都是我们的！”
　　他们透过一个破旧不堪的拱门向远处的台阶凝望。这座城堡曾经有两座漂亮的塔楼，但现在有一座几乎不见了。另一座破败不堪，高高地站在空中。黑色的寒鸦聚集在那里，大声鸣叫着。
　　“好玩的鸟，”迪克说，“我喜欢它们。看到它们脑后的灰斑了吗，安妮？它们总是叫个不停。”
　　“我不这么认为，”乔治说，“啊，你看那些兔子，它们比以前更乖了！”
　　院子里到处都是大兔子，它们都在盯着孩子们走近。它们是那么温驯——似乎能让孩子们拍拍，但当孩子们靠近时，它们一个接一个地绕开溜掉了。
　　蒂米非常兴奋，它抖动着尾巴。哦，为什么它不能追这些兔子呢？为什么乔治对兔子情有独钟呢？为什么它不能追得兔子四散奔逃呢？
　　但乔治用手抓住蒂米的项圈，狠狠地瞪了它一眼，“蒂米，就是最小的兔子你也不能追，它们都是我的。”
　　“是我们的！”安妮立刻纠正道。她想分享兔子，还有城堡和岛屿。
　　“对，是我们的！”乔治说，“我们去看看那狭小黑暗的房间吧，我们要在那里过夜呢。”
　　他们走到城堡的门口往里看，这里损毁的程度似乎不那么严重。
　　“就是这里！”朱利安边说边往里看，“在这里手电筒就派上用场了，这里的窗户太小了，里面一片漆黑。”
　　他打开手电筒，孩子们都盯着那间破旧的房间，他们要把东西存放在这里，还要在这里睡觉。
　　“天哪！”乔治大叫一声，“我们不能用这个房间！去年夏天屋顶就塌了。”
　　朱利安用手电筒照着一堆散落在地上的石头。这个房间是不能住了。的确，住在这间屋子里可能很危险，因为房子看起来好像随时会有更多的石头掉下来。
　　“倒霉！”朱利安说，“我们该怎么办呢？我们需要另外找个地方来存放东西和睡觉！”
Chapter Eleven ON THE OLD WRECK
Chapter Eleven ON THE OLD WRECK
　　IT was quite a shock to have their plans spoilt. They knew there was no other room in the ruinedcastle that was sufficiently whole to shelter them. And they must find some sort of shelter, foralthough the weather was fine at the moment, it might rain hard any day - or a storm might blow up.
　　"And storms round about Kirrin are so very violent," said Julian, remembering one or two. "Do youremember the storm that tossed your wreck up from the bottom of the sea, George?""Oh yes," said George and Anne, together, and Anne added eagerly: "Let's go and see the wrecktoday if we can. I'd love to see if it's still balanced on those rocks, as it was last year, when weexplored it."
　　"Well, first we must make up our minds where we are going to sleep," said Julian, firmly. "I don'tknow if you realise it, but it's about three o'clock in the afternoon! We slept for hours on the sand -tired out with our exciting night, I suppose. We really must find some safe place and put our thingsthere at once, and make our beds."
　　"Well, but where shall we go?" said Dick. "There's no other place in the old castle.""There's the dungeon below," said Anne, shivering. "But I don't want to go there. It's so dark andmysterious."
　　Nobody wanted to sleep down in the dungeons! Dick frowned and thought hard. "What about thewreck?" he said. "Any chance of living there?""We might go and see," said Julian. "I don't somehow fancy living on a damp old rotting wreck -but if it's still high on the rocks, maybe the sun will have dried it, and it might be possible to have ourbed and stores there."
　　"Let's go and see now," said George. So they made their way from the ruined castle to the old wallthat ran round it. From there they would be able to see the wreck. It had been cast up the year before,and had settled firmly on some rocks.
　　They stood on the wall and looked for the wreck, but it was not where they had expected it. "It'smoved," said Julian, in surprise. "There it is, look, on those rocks - nearer to the shore than it wasbefore. Poor old wreck! It's been battered about a good bit this last winter, hasn't it? It looks muchmore of a real wreck than it did last summer."51
　　"I don't believe we shall be able to sleep there," said Dick. "It's dreadfully battered. We might be ableto store food there, though. Do you know, I believe we could get to it from those rocks that run outfrom the island!"
　　"Yes, I believe we could," said George. "We could only reach it safely by boat last summer - butwhen the tide is down, I think we could climb out over the line of rocks, right to the wreck itself.""We'll try in about an hour," said Julian, feeling excited. "The tide will be off the rocks by then.""Let's go and have a look at the old well," said Dick, and they made their way back to the courtyardof the castle. Here, the summer before, they had found the entrance to the well-shaft that ran deepdown through the rock, past the dungeons below, lower than the level of the sea, to fresh water.
　　The children looked about for the well, and came to the old wooden cover. They drew it back.
　　"There are the rungs of the old iron ladder I went down last year," said Dick, peering in. "Now let'sfind the entrance to the dungeon. The steps down into it are somewhere near here."They found the entrance, but to their surprise some enormous stones had been pulled across it.
　　"Who did that?" said George, frowning. "We didn't! Someone has been here!""Trippers, I suppose," said Julian. "Do you remember that we thought we saw a spire of smoke herethe other day? I bet it was trippers. You know, the story of Kirrin Island, and its old castle anddungeons, and the treasure we found in it last year, was all in the newspapers. I expect one of thefishermen has been making money by taking trippers and landing them on our island.""How dare they?" said George, looking very fierce. "I shall put up a board that says "Trespassers willbe sent to prison." I won't have strangers on our island.""Well, don't worry about the stones pulled across the dungeon entrance," said Julian. "I don't thinkany of us want to go down there. Look at poor old Timmy! He's gazing at those rabbits mostunhappily. Isn't he funny?"
　　Timothy was sitting down behind the children, looking most mournfully at the ring of rabbits allround the weed grown courtyard. He looked at the rabbits and then he looked at George, then helooked back at the rabbits.
　　"No good, Timmy," said George, firmly. "I'm not going to change my mind about rabbits. You're notto chase them on our island."
　　52
　　"I expect he thinks you're most unfair to him," said Anne. "After all, you said he might share yourquarter of the island with you - and so he thinks he ought to have his share of your rabbits too!"Everyone laughed. Timmy wagged his tail and looked hopefully at George. They all walked acrossthe courtyard and then Julian suddenly came to a stop.
　　"Look!" he said in surprise, pointing to something on the ground. "Look! Someone has been here!
　　This is where they built a fire!"
　　Everyone gazed at the ground. There was a heap of wood-ash there, quite evidently left from a fire.
　　Stamped into the ground was a cigarette end, too. There was absolutely no doubt about it -someone had been on the island!
　　"If trippers come here I'll set Timmy on to them!" cried George, in a fury. "This is our own place, itdoesn't belong to anybody else at all. Timothy, you mustn't chase rabbits here, but you can chaseanybody on two legs, except us! See?"
　　Timmy wagged his tail at once. "Woof!" he said, quite agreeing. He looked all round as if he hopedto see somebody appearing that he could chase. But there was no one.
　　"I should think the tide is about off those rocks by now," said Julian. "Let's go and see. If it is we'llclimb along them and see if we can get to the wreck. Anne had better not come. She might slip andfall, and the sea is raging all round the rocks.""Of course I'm coming!" cried Anne, indignantly "You're just as likely to fall as I am.""Well, I'll see if it looks too dangerous," said Julian. They made their way over the castle wall, downto the line of rocks that ran out seawards, towards the wreck. Big waves did wash over the rocksoccasionally, but it seemed fairly safe.
　　"If you keep between me and Dick, you can come, Anne," said Julian. "But you must let us help youover difficult parts, and not make a fuss. We don't want you to fall in and get washed away."They began to make their way along the line of rugged slippery rocks. The tide went down evenfarther as they got nearer to the wreck, and soon there was very little danger of being washed off therocks. It was possible now to get right to the wreck across the rocks - a thing they had not been ableto do the summer before.
　　"Here we are!" said Julian at last, and he put his hand on the side of the old wreck. She was a big shipnow that they were near to her. She towered above them, thick with shellfish and seaweed, 53smelling musty and old. The water washed round the bottom part of her, but the top part was right outof the water, even when the tide was at its highest.
　　"She's been thrown about a bit last winter," said George, looking at her. "There are a lot more newhole in her side, aren't there? And part of her old mast is gone and some of the deck. How can we getup to her?"
　　"I've got a rope," said Julian, and he undid a rope that he had wound round his waist. "Half a minute -I'll make a loop and see if I can throw it round that post sticking out up there."He threw the rope two or three times, but could not get the loop round the post. George took it fromhim impatiently. At the first throw she got it round the post. She was very good indeed at things likethat - better than a boy in some things, Anne thought admiringly.
　　She was up the rope like a monkey, and soon stood on the sloping slippery deck. She almost slipped,but caught at a broken piece of deck just in time. Julian helped Anne to go up, and then the two boysfollowed.
　　"It's a horrid smell, isn't it?" said Anne, wrinkling up her nose. "Do all wrecks smell like this? I don'tthink I'll go and look down in the cabins like we did last time. The smell would be worse there."So the others left Anne up on the half-rotten deck while they went to explore a bit. They went downto the smelly, seaweed-hung cabins, and into the captain's old cabin, the biggest of the lot.
　　But it was quite plain that not only could they not sleep there, but they could certainly not hope tostore anything there, either. The whole place was damp and rotten. Julian was half afraid his footwould go through the planking at any moment.
　　"Let's go up to the deck," he said. "It's nasty down here - awfully dark too."They were just going up, when they heard a shout from Anne, "I say! Come here, quick! I've foundsomething!"
　　They hurried up as fast as they could, slipping and sliding on the sloping deck. Anne was standingwhere they had left her, her eyes shining brightly. She was pointing to something on the opposite sideof the ship.
　　"What is it?" said George. "What's the matter?""Look - that wasn't here when we came here before surely!" said Anne, still pointing. The otherslooked where she pointed. They saw an open locker at the other side of the deck, and stuffed into itwas a small black trunk! How extraordinary!
　　54
　　"A little black trunk!" said Julian, in surprise. "No - that wasn't there before. It's not been there longeither - it's quite dry and new! Whoever does it belong to? And why should it be here?"
11.沉船残骸
　　沉船残骸
　　他们的计划泡汤了，这着实令人震惊。他们知道，在这座废弃的城堡里，再没有别的房间能容纳他们了。他们必须找个地方避雨，因为虽然现在天气很好，但随时都可能下起大雨，暴风雨也有可能突然来袭。
　　“科林岛周围的暴风雨非常猛烈，”朱利安回想起遭受过的一两次暴风雨，说道，“乔治，你们还记得把沉船从海底卷起来的那场暴风雨吗？”
　　“哦，记得！”乔治和安妮异口同声回答道，安妮急切地补充说，“如果可以的话，我们今天就去看看沉船。我很想看看它是否还平稳地躺在那些礁石上，像我们去年见到的那样呢。”
　　“但首先我们必须决定去哪儿睡觉，”朱利安坚定地说，“我不知道你们有没有意识到，现在大概已经是下午三点了！我们在沙滩上睡了几个小时，因为我们折腾了一夜太累了。我们必须找个安全的地方，马上把东西放在那里，把床铺好。”
　　“可我们的住处在哪儿呢？”迪克说，“古堡里没有别的地方了。”
　　“下面有个地牢，”安妮浑身颤抖着说，“但我不想去那里，那里太黑暗、太神秘了。”
　　没人想睡在地牢里！迪克皱着眉头苦思冥想，“沉船怎么样？”他说，“能不能住在那里呢？”
　　“我们可以去看看，”朱利安说，“我不喜欢住在潮湿腐烂的沉船上——但如果它还在高高的礁石上，也许太阳已经把它晒干了，我们就可以住在那里，并且储藏东西。”
　　“我们现在就去看看。”乔治说。于是他们从废弃的城堡走到环绕城堡的旧城墙上。从那里他们可以看到沉船。它是在一年前被暴风雨卷上来的，牢牢地停在了礁石上。
　　他们站在墙上望着沉船，但沉船已经不在原来的地方了。
　　“它被移动了！”朱利安惊讶地说，“看，沉船在那些礁石上，比以前更靠近海岸了。可怜的残骸！去年冬天它饱受摧残，不是吗？
　　与去年夏天相比，它看起来更加破烂不堪了。”
　　“我不相信我们能睡在那儿，”迪克说，“沉船太破了。不过，我们也许可以在那里储存食物。你们看，我觉得我们可以从那些礁石上过去，到达沉船。”
　　“是的，”乔治说，“去年夏天，我们只能乘船去沉船上，但当潮水退去时，我想我们可以沿着这条礁石线爬过去，一直爬到沉船上。”
　　“一小时后我们试试，”朱利安兴奋地说，“到那时，潮水会从礁石上退下去。”
　　“我们去看看那口老井吧。”迪克说。他们向城堡的院子走去。
　　去年夏天，他们在这里发现了淡水井的井口，淡水井很深，它穿过岩石和下面的地牢，比海平面还低，通向淡水层。
　　孩子们四处寻找水井。他们来到木头井盖前，打开了井盖。
　　“那是去年我爬下去用的老式铁梯。”迪克说着往里瞥了一眼，“现在我们去找地牢的入口，通向里面的台阶就在这附近。”
　　他们找到了入口，但令人吃惊的是，入口处横放着一些巨大的石头，“这是谁干的？”乔治皱着眉头说道，“不是我们放的，有人来过这里！”
　　“我想是旅游者吧，”朱利安说，“你还记得那天我们看到这里升起的一缕烟吗？我敢打赌那一定是旅游者。你知道，科林岛的故事、它的旧城堡和地牢，以及我们去年在那里发现的宝藏，这些都上报了。我想可能有渔民把游客带到我们岛上来从中赚钱。”
　　“岂有此理！”乔治怒气冲冲地说，“我要立一块牌子，上面写着：‘擅自闯岛者将被送进监狱。’我的岛上不许陌生人闯入。”
　　“别担心地牢入口处的那些石头，”朱利安说，“我想我们都不愿意去那里。看看可怜的蒂米！它眼巴巴地看着那些兔子，非常不高兴，样子是不是很滑稽呢？”
　　蒂米坐在孩子们的后面，非常无奈地望着院子四周的兔子，看了看乔治，然后又望着兔子。
　　“不能追，蒂米。”乔治坚定地说，“对于兔子，我不会改变主意的，你不能在我们的岛上追逐它们。”
　　“我想它认为你对它很不公平，”安妮说，“毕竟，你说过它可以和你分享你那四分之一的岛屿，所以它认为它也应该分享你的兔子！”
　　大家都笑了。蒂米摇着尾巴，满怀希望地看着乔治。他们一起穿过庭院，然后朱利安突然停了下来。
　　“看！”他指着地上的什么东西惊讶地说，“有人来过这里！他们在这里生过火！”
　　大家都盯着地面看，地上有一堆木柴灰，显然是生火留下的，地上还有一个烟头。毫无疑问，有人来过岛上！
　　“要是游客来了，我就叫蒂米咬他们。”乔治怒气冲冲地说道，“这是我们自己的地方，根本不属于别人。蒂米，在这里你不能追兔子，但你可以追逐两条腿的人，我们除外！懂吗？”
　　蒂米立刻摇了摇尾巴，“汪！”地叫了一声表示明白。它环顾四周，好像希望看到有人出现，那它就可以追逐了，但是没有人。
　　朱利安说：“我想现在潮水已经退离了那些礁石。我们去看看吧。如果已经退了，我们就顺着礁石爬过去，看看能不能到达沉船。安妮最好别去了，她可能会滑倒，礁石周围的海水很是汹涌翻腾。”
　　“我要去！”安妮气愤地嚷道，“你们和我一样可能会摔倒。”
　　“好吧，我看看是不是还很危险。”朱利安说，他们穿过城堡的围墙，一直走到延伸入海的礁石线，向沉船的方向走去。巨大的海浪偶尔冲击着礁石，但没有什么危险。
　　“安妮，如果你走在我和迪克之间，你就可以去。”朱利安说，“但在危险的地方，你必须让我们帮助你。不要一惊一乍的，我们不希望你掉进海里被冲走。”
　　孩子们开始沿着崎岖不平、滑溜溜的礁石线前进。等到他们靠近沉船时，潮水退得更低了，已然没有被冲下礁石的危险了。现在，他们可以爬上礁石直接进入沉船了——这是他们在去年夏天没法做到的事情。
　　“我们登上沉船了！”朱利安终于开口了，他把火腿放在沉船的一边。去年他们来的时候，它还是一艘大船，高高耸立，船身上满是贝类和海藻，散发着发霉的气味。海水冲刷着船体的底部，但船体的顶部刚好露出水面，即使是在涨潮的时候。
　　“去年冬天它遭到了破坏，”乔治看着沉船说，“船体的侧面上又多了一个新洞，一些桅杆和甲板不见了。我们怎样才能上去呢？”
　　“我有一根绳子。”朱利安说着解开了缠在腰上的绳子，“等一下，我要做个绳套，看看能不能把它套在那根伸出来的柱子上。”
　　他把绳子扔了两三次，但还是套不上柱子。乔治不耐烦地从他手里夺过绳子，伸手一抛，就套住了柱子。她确实很擅长这类事情——在某些事情上胜过男孩，安妮钦佩地想。
　　乔治像猴子一样爬上了绳子，很快就站在了倾斜的滑溜溜的甲板上。她差点滑倒，但及时抓住了一块破甲板。朱利安把安妮扶上去，然后两个男孩跟着上去。
　　“这里有一股可怕的气味。”安妮皱起鼻子说，“所有的残骸都是这个味道吗？我想我不会像上次那样进船舱里看了，那里的气味更难闻。”
　　于是，其他人把安妮留在了半腐烂的甲板上，自己去探索了。
　　他们来到臭气熏天、满是海草的船舱里，走进船长舱，那是沉船上最大的船舱。很明显，他们不但不能睡在那里，而且肯定也不能指望在那里存放什么东西。整个地方又湿又臭，朱利安有点担心他会踩漏地板，掉下去。
　　“我们回甲板上去吧，”他说，“这里霉气太重了，到处脏兮兮，黑乎乎的。”
　　他们正要上去，突然听到安妮喊道：“快来！我发现了东西！”
　　他们以最快的速度来到甲板上。安妮还站在原地，眼睛闪闪发光，正在指着船的对面。
　　“那是什么？”乔治说，“怎么了？出了什么事？”
　　“看，我们以前来的时候肯定没有那个东西！”安妮说着，手仍然指着那里。其他人顺着她手指的方向看过去，看到甲板的另一边有一个打开的储物柜，里面塞了一个黑色的小箱子！多么奇怪啊！
　　“一个小巧的黑色行李箱！”朱利安惊讶地说，“以前没有。它在那里的时间不长，又干又新！它是谁的呢？为什么会在这里？”
Chapter Twelve THE CAVE IN THE CLIFF
Chapter Twelve THE CAVE IN THE CLIFF
　　CAUTIOUSLY the children made their way down the slippery deck towards the locker. The door ofthis had evidently been shut on the trunk but had come open, so that the trunk was not hidden, as hadbeen intended.
　　Julian pulled out the little black trunk. All the children were amazed. Why should anyone put a trunkthere?
　　"Smugglers, do you think?" said Dick, his eyes gleaming.
　　"Yes - it might be," said Julian, thoughtfully, trying to undo the straps of the trunk. "This would be avery good place for smugglers. Ships that knew the way could put in, cast off a boat with smuggledgoods, leave them here, and go on their way, knowing that people could come and collect the goodsat their leisure."
　　"Do you think there are smuggled goods inside the trunk?" asked Anne, in excitement. "What wouldthere be? Diamonds? Silks?"
　　"Anything that has a duty to be paid on it before it can get into the country," said Julian. "Blow thesestraps! I can't undo them."
　　"Let me try," said Anne, who had very deft little fingers. She began to work at the buckles, and in ashort time had the straps undone. But a further disappointment awaited them. The trunk was well andtruly locked! There were two good locks, and no keys!
　　"Blow!" said George. "How sickening! How can we get the trunk open now?""We can't," said Julian. "And we mustn't smash it open, because it would warn whoever it belongs tothat the goods had been found. We don't want to warn the smugglers that we have discovered theirlittle game. We want to try and catch them!""Ooooh!" said Anne, going red with excitement. "Catch the smugglers! Oh Julian! Do you reallythink we could?"
　　55
　　"Why not?" said Julian. "No one knows we are here. If we hid whenever we saw a ship approachingthe island, we might see a boat coming to it, and we could watch and find out what is happening. Ishould think that the smugglers are using this island as a sort of dropping-place for goods. I wonderwho comes and fetches them? Someone from Kirrin Village or the nearby places, I should think.""This is going to be awfully exciting," said Dick. "We always seem to have adventures when wecome to Kirrin. It's absolutely full of them. This will be the third one we have had.""I think we ought to be getting back over the rocks," said Julian, suddenly looking over the side ofthe ship and seeing that the tide had turned. "Come on - we don't want to be caught by the tide andhave to stay here for hours and hours! I'll go down the rope first. Then you come, Anne."They were soon climbing over the rocks again, feeling very excited. Just as they reached the laststretch of rocks leading to the rocky cliff of the island itself, Dick stopped.
　　"What's up?" said George, pushing behind him. "Do get on!""Isn't that a cave, just beyond that big rock there?" said Dick, pointing. "It looks awfully like one tome. If it was, it would be a simply lovely place to store our things in, and even to sleep in, if it wasout of reach of the sea."
　　"There aren't any caves on Kirrin," began George, and then she stopped short. What Dick waspointing at really did look like a cave. It was worth while seeing if it was one. After all, George hadnever explored this line of rocks, and so had never been able to catch sight of the cave that lay justbeyond. It could not possibly be seen from the land.
　　"We'll go and see," she said. So they changed their direction, and instead of climbing back the waythey had come, they cut across the mass of rock and made their way towards a jutting-out part of thecliff, in which the cave seemed to be.
　　They came to it at last. Steep rocks guarded the entrance, and half hid it. Except from where Dick hadseen it, it was really impossible to catch sight of it, it was so well-hidden.
　　"It is a cave!" said Dick, in delight, stepping into it. "And my, what a fine one!"It really was a beauty. Its floor was spread with fine white sand, as soft as powder, and perfectly dry,for the cave was clearly higher than the tide reached, except, possibly in a bad winter storm.
　　Round one side of it ran a stone ledge.
　　56
　　"Exactly like a shelf made for us!" cried Anne, in joy. "We can put all our things here. How lovely!
　　Let's come and live here and sleep here. And look, Julian we've even got a skylight in the roof!"The little girl pointed upwards, and the others saw that the roof of the cave was open in one part,giving on to the cliff-top itself. It was plain that somewhere on the heathery cliff above was a holethat looked down to the cave, making what Anne called a "skylight'.
　　"We could drop all our things down through that hole," said Julian, quickly making plans. "We wouldhave an awful time bringing them over the rocks. If we can find that hole up there when we are outon the cliff again, we can let down everything on a rope. It's not a very high"skylight", as Anne calls it, for the cliffs are low just here. I believe we could swing ourselves down arope easily, so that we needn't have the bother of clambering over the rocks to the seaward entrancewe have just come in by!"
　　This was a grand discovery. "Our island is even more exciting than we thought," said Anne, happily.
　　"We've got a beautiful cave to share now!"The next thing to do, of course, was to go up on the cliff and find the hole that led to the roof of thecave. So out they all went, Timmy too. Timmy was funny on the slippery rocks. His feet slitheredabout, and two or three times he fell into the water. But he just swam across the pools he fell into,clambered out and went on again with his slithering.
　　"He's like George!" said Anne, with a laugh. "He never gives up, whatever happens to him!"They climbed up to the top of the cliff. It was easy to find the hole once they knew it was there.
　　"Pretty dangerous, really," said Julian, when he had found it, and was peering down. "Any one of usmight have run on this cliff and popped down the hole by accident. See, it's all criss-crossed withblackberry brambles."
　　They scratched their hands, trying to free the hole from the brambles. Once they had cleared the hole,they could look right down into the cave quite easily.
　　"It's not very far down," said Anne. "It looks almost as if we could jump down, if we let ourselvesslide down this hole."
　　"Don't you do anything of the sort," said Julian. "You'd break your leg. Wait till we get a rope fixedup, hanging down into the cave. Then we can manage to get in and out easily."57
　　They went back to the boat, and began unloading it. They took everything across to the seaward sideof the island, where the cave was. Julian took a strong rope and knotted it thickly at intervals.
　　"To give our feet a hold as we go down," he explained. "If we drop down too quickly, we'll hurt ourhands. These knots will stop us slipping and help us to climb up.""Let me go down first, and then you can lower all our things to me," said George. So down she went,hand over hand, her feet easily finding the thick knots, feeling for one after another. It was a goodway to go down.
　　"How shall we get Timmy down?" said Julian. But Timothy, who had been whining anxiously at theedge of the hole, watching George sliding away from him, solved the difficulty himself.
　　He jumped into the hole and disappeared down it! There came a shriek from below.
　　"Oh! My goodness, what's this! Oh Timmy! Have you hurt yourself?"The sand was very soft, like a velvet cushion and Tim had not hurt himself at all. He gave himself ashake and then barked joyfully. He was with George again! He wasn't going to have his mistressdisappearing down mysterious holes without following her at once. Not Timmy!
　　Then followed the business of lowering down all the goods. Anne and Dick tied the things together inrugs, and Julian lowered them carefully. George untied the rope as soon as it reached her, took outthe goods, and then back went the rope again to be tied round another bundle.
　　"Last one!" called Julian, after a long spell of really hard work. "Then down we come too, and I don'tmind telling you that before we make our beds or anything, our next job is to have a jolly good meal!
　　It's hours and hours since we had a meal, and I'm starving."Soon they were all sitting on the warm soft floor of the cave. They opened a tin of meat, cut hugeslices of bread and made sandwiches. Then they opened a tin of pineapple chunks and ate those,spooning them out of the tin full of sweetness and juice. After that they still felt hungry so theyopened two tins of sardines and dug them out with biscuits. It made a really grand meal.
　　"Ginger-pop to finish up with please," said Dick "My word, why don't people always have meals likethis?"
　　"We'd better hurry up or we shan't be able to get heather for our beds," said George, sleepily.
　　"Who wants heather?" said Dick, "I don't! This lovely soft sand is all I shall want - and a cushion anda rug or two. I shall sleep better here than ever I did in bed!"58
　　So the rugs and cushions were spread out on the sandy floor of the cave. A candle was lighted as itgrew dark, and the four sleepy children looked at one another. Timmy, as usual, was with George.
　　"Good-night," said George. "I can't keep awake another minute. "Good-night, ev . . . ery . . .
　　body . . . good . . . night!"
12.悬崖怪洞
　　悬崖怪洞
　　孩子们小心翼翼地沿着滑溜溜的甲板朝储物柜走去。显然，柜门原本是关好了的，但是不知道为什么又打开了，藏在里面的箱子也暴露出来了。
　　朱利安把那个小黑皮箱拉了出来，所有的孩子都很惊讶，为什么要把箱子放在这里呢？
　　“走私，你们觉得呢？”迪克的眼睛一亮，说道。
　　“对，可能是这样。”朱利安想了想，试图解开箱子的带子，“对走私者来说，这是一个非常好的地方。知道路的船只可以开进来，卸下走私的货物，然后继续前进，因为他们知道有人可以在闲暇时来取货。”
　　“你认为行李箱里有走私货物吗？”安妮兴奋地问，“会有什么？
　　钻石还是丝绸呢？”
　　朱利安说：“所有要缴纳关税才能流入国内的东西都有可能。倒霉！我解不开这些带子！”
　　“让我试试。”安妮说完，她那纤巧的手指在带扣间穿梭着，不一会儿带子就解开了。但更大的失望在等待着他们：箱子锁得严严实实！箱子上有两把锁，却没有钥匙！
　　“倒霉！”乔治说，“现在我们怎样才能打开箱子呢？”
　　朱利安说：“打不开也不能把它砸开，因为那样箱子的主人就会知道货物已经被发现。我们不想让走私者知道有人发现了他们的走私活动。我们要设法抓住他们！”
　　“哇！”安妮激动得满脸通红，“抓走私贩！噢，朱利安，你真的认为我们能做到吗？”
　　“为什么不能呢？”朱利安说，“没人知道我们在这里。每当我们看到大船靠近小岛就躲起来，有可能会看到一艘小船靠近沉船，我们监视他们在做什么。我想，走私者把这座岛当作货物的集散地了。谁来取货呢？我想应该是来自科林岛或者附近的人。”
　　“这太令人兴奋了，”迪克说，“我们每次来科林岛，似乎总是有冒险的经历。这是我们第三次冒险了。”
　　“我想我们应该从礁石上回去了，”朱利安从船舷上望过去，看到潮水已经转向了，说道，“走吧——我们可不想被潮水困住，在这里待上几个小时！我先从绳子上下去，然后是安妮。”
　　他们很快又爬上了礁石，大家都非常兴奋。正当他们走到最后一段通往小岛悬崖的礁石时，迪克停了下来。
　　“怎么了？”乔治在他身后推了一把说，“往前走啊！”
　　“那块大石头后面是不是一个岩洞？”迪克边说边指，“它看起来非常像一个岩洞。如果是的话，那将是我们储存东西的好地方；如果海水到不了那里，我们甚至可以在那里睡觉。”
　　“科林岛上没有岩洞……”乔治说，然后她停了下来。迪克指着的地方看起来确实像个岩洞，值得一探究竟。毕竟，乔治从来没有探索过这条礁石线，所以也没能看到不远处的那个岩洞，岩洞从陆地上是看不见的。
　　“我们去看看。”她说。于是，他们改变了方向，没有沿着来时的路往回走，而是抄近路穿过一大片岩石区域，向悬崖的突出部分走去，那个岩洞似乎就在那里。
　　他们终于走到了，陡峭的岩石半掩着洞口。这个洞口只能在刚才迪克站的位置才看得见，因为它隐藏得太好了。
　　“这是一个岩洞！”迪克高兴地说着走了进去，“我的天啊，多漂亮的岩洞啊！”
　　这真是个漂亮的岩洞：地面上铺满了细细的洁白沙子，像粉末一样柔软，十分干燥，因为这个岩洞显然比潮水的高度还要高，冬季恶劣的风暴除外。洞的一边有突出来的石台。
　　“这就像专门给我们做的架子一样！”安妮高兴地叫道，“我们可以把所有的东西都放在这里。太好了！让我们来这里住吧。看，朱利安，我们的屋顶上还有天窗！”
　　小女孩向上指了指，其他人看到岩洞的顶部有一处是开着的，露出了悬崖顶部。很明显，在石崖上的某个地方，有一个窟窿可以俯视岩洞，形成了安妮所说的“天窗”。
　　“我们可以把我们所有的东西都从那个窟窿投进来。”朱利安说着，迅速制订了计划，“通过那片岩石区域把东西带过来，困难重重。如果能在悬崖上找到那个窟窿，我们就可以用绳子把所有东西都投放下来。这个天窗不像安妮说的那样高，因为这里的悬崖很低。我相信我们可以很容易地从绳子上滑下来，这样我们就用不着爬上岩石，来到海边的入口处了！”
　　这是一个重大的发现。“我们的岛屿比我们想象的还要刺激，”安妮高兴地说，“我们现在有漂亮的岩洞住了！”
　　接下来要做的事，当然就是爬到悬崖上，找到那个通往岩洞顶部的窟窿。他们都出去了，蒂米也去了。蒂米在滑溜溜的礁石上很滑稽。它的脚滑来滑去，两三次掉进水里。但它掉在哪里，就从哪里爬出来，继续滑行。
　　“它就像乔治一样！”安妮笑着说，“不管发生什么事，它都不会放弃！”
　　他们爬上了悬崖的顶部。一旦他们知道窟窿的位置，就很容易找到。
　　“真的很危险！”朱利安顺着窟窿往下看，“我们中的任何人都可能来到悬崖上，一不小心就从窟窿里掉下去。看，全是纵横交错的黑莓荆棘。”
　　他们想把黑莓荆棘遮掩着的窟窿口清理出来，但都被扎手了。
　　一旦清理完窟窿口，他们就能轻易地看到岩洞了。
　　“不太深，”安妮说，“看起来我们好像可以跳下去。”
　　“不要轻举妄动，”朱利安说，“那会摔断你的腿。等我们把一根绳子固定起来，拴在窟窿处，然后我们就可以很容易地进出了。”
　　他们回到船上，开始卸货。他们把所有东西都搬到朝向海的一边，就是那个岩洞所在的地方。朱利安拿起一根结实的绳子，隔一段就打个结。
　　他解释说：“当我们往下滑的时候，我们的脚要有一个支撑点。
　　如果我们下滑得太快，手就会受伤。这些绳结会阻止我们打滑，帮助我们爬上去。”
　　“让我先下去，然后你们可以把我们所有的东西都递给我。”乔治说。于是，她两手交替着往下滑，她的脚很容易就能找到那些厚厚的绳结，一个接一个地感觉着，这是很好的下滑方法。
　　“我们怎样才能把蒂米弄下来？”朱利安问道。蒂米一直在洞边焦急地呜咽着，看着乔治从它身边滑下去，它自己解决了这个难题。
　　它跳了下去，消失在洞里！从下面传来一声尖叫。
　　“哦！我的天哪，怎么了？蒂米！你受伤了吗？”
　　沙子很软，像天鹅绒的垫子，蒂米一点也没有受伤。它摇了摇头，然后高兴地叫了起来。它又和乔治在一起了！它不会让它的主人消失在神秘的岩洞里而不跟随，那不是蒂米的风格！
　　接着，他们又做了一件事：把所有的货物都放下来。安妮和迪克用地毯把东西捆在一起，朱利安小心翼翼地把它们放下去。货物一到乔治跟前，她就把绳子解开，取下货物，然后松开绳子去取另一捆。
　　“最后一件事！”朱利安说，“我们也下去吧，在铺床或做别的事情之前，我们的下一项工作就是美餐一顿！我们已经好几个小时没吃饭了，我都快饿死了。”
　　不久，他们都坐在温暖柔软的岩洞地面上。他们打开一罐肉罐头，切了大块面包，做了三明治。然后他们又打开一罐菠萝罐头，菠萝块香甜多汁，他们津津有味地用勺子挖着吃。此后，他们仍然感到饥饿，所以又打开了两罐沙丁鱼罐头，吃个一干二净！他们还吃了饼干。这顿饭真丰盛啊！
　　“最后来点姜汁汽水，”迪克说，“我的天，要是天天这样吃多好啊！”
　　“我们最好快一点，否则我们就找不到石南花铺床了。”乔治睡眼惺忪地说。
　　“要石南花干吗？”迪克说，“我不要！我就要这可爱柔软的沙子，还有一个垫子和一两块地毯。我在这里比在床上睡得更好！”
　　于是，地毯和垫子就铺在岩洞的沙地上。天渐渐黑了，他们点亮了蜡烛，四个昏昏欲睡的孩子面面相觑。和往常一样，蒂米和乔治在一起。
　　“晚安，”乔治说，“我的眼皮都打架了。大家晚安吧。”
Chapter Thirteen A DAY ON THE ISLAND
Chapter Thirteen A DAY ON THE ISLAND
　　THE children hardly knew where they were the next day when they woke up. The sun was pouringinto the cave entrance, and fell first of all on George's sleeping face. It awoke her and she lay half-dozing, wondering why her bed felt rather less soft than usual.
　　"But I'm not in my bed - I'm on Kirrin Island, of course!" she thought suddenly to herself. She sat upand gave Anne a punch. "Wake up, sleepy-head! We're on the island!"Soon they were all awake rubbing the sleep from their eyes. "I think I'm going to get heather todayfor my bed, after all," said Anne. "The sand feels soft at first, but it gets hard after a bit."The others agreed that they would all get heather for their beds, set on the sand, with rugs forcovering. Then they would have really fine beds.
　　"It's fun to live in a cave," said Dick. "Fancy having a fine cave like this on our island, as well as acastle and dungeons! We are really very lucky.""I feel sticky and dirty," said Julian. "Let's go and have a bathe before we have breakfast. Then coldham, bread, pickles and marmalade for me!""We shall be cold after our bathe," said George. "We'd better light my little stove and put the kettleon to boil while we're bathing. Then we can make some hot cocoa when we come back shivering!""Oh yes," said Anne, who had never boiled anything on such a tiny stove before. "Do let's. I'll fill thekettle with water from one of the containers. What shall we do for milk?""There's a tin of milk somewhere in the pile," said Julian. "We can open that. Where's the tin-opener?"
　　59
　　It was not to be found which was most exasperating. But at last Julian discovered it in his pocket, soall was well.
　　The little stove was filled with methylated spirit, and lighted. The kettle was filled and set on top.
　　Then the children went off to bathe.
　　"Look! There's a simply marvellous pool in the middle of those rocks over there!" called Julian,pointing. "We've never spotted it before. Golly, it's like a small swimming-pool, made specially forus!"
　　"Kirrin Swimming Pool, five pence a dip!" said Dick. "Free to the owners, though! Come on - itlooks gorgeous! And see how the waves keep washing over the top of the rocks and splashing intothe pool. Couldn't be better!"
　　It really was a lovely rock-pool, deep, clear and not too cold. The children enjoyed themselvesthoroughly, splashing about and swimming and floating. George tried a dive off one of the rocks, andwent in beautifully.
　　"George can do anything in the water," said Anne, admiringly. "I wish I could dive and swim likeGeorge. But I never shall."
　　"We can see the old wreck nicely from here," said Julian, coming out of the water. "Blow! We didn'tbring any towels."
　　"We'll use one of the rugs, turn and turn about," said Dick. "I'll go and fetch the thinnest one. I say -do you remember that trunk we saw in the wreck yesterday? Odd, wasn't it?""Yes, very odd," said Julian. "I don't understand it. We'll have to keep a watch on the wreck and seewho comes to collect the trunk."
　　"I suppose the smugglers - if they are smugglers - will come slinking round this side of the island andquietly send off a boat to the wreck," said George, drying herself vigorously. "Well, we'd better keepa strict look-out, and see if anything appears on the sea out there in the way of a small steamer, boator ship."
　　"Yes. We don't want them to spot us," said Dick. "We shan't find out anything if they see us and arewarned. They'd at once give up coming to the island. I vote we each of us take turns at keeping alook-out, so that we can spot anything at once and get under cover.""Good idea!" said Julian. "Well, I'm dry, but not very warm. Let's race to the cave, and get that hotdrink. And breakfast - golly, I could eat a whole chicken and probably a duck as well, to say nothingof a turkey."
　　60
　　The others laughed. They all felt the same. They raced off to the cave, running over the sand andclimbing over a few rocks, then down to the cave-beach and into the big entrance, still splashed withsunshine.
　　The kettle was boiling away merrily, sending a cloud of steam up from its tin spout. "Get the ham outand a loaf of bread, and that jar of pickles we brought," ordered Julian. "I'll open the tin of milk.
　　George, you take the tin of cocoa and that jug, and make enough for all of us.""I'm so terribly happy," said Anne, as she sat at the entrance to the cave, eating her breakfast.
　　"It's a lovely feeling. It's simply gorgeous being on our island like this, all by ourselves, able to dowhat we like."
　　They all felt the same. It was such a lovely day too, and the sky and sea were so blue. They sat eatingand drinking, gazing out to sea, watching the waves break into spray over the rocks beyond the oldwreck. It certainly was a very rocky coast.
　　"Let's arrange everything very nicely in the cave," said Anne, who was the tidiest of the four, andalways liked to play at "houses" if she could. "This shall be our house, our home. We'll make fourproper beds. And we'll each have our own place to sit in. And we'll arrange everything tidily on thatbig stone shelf there. It might have been made for us!""We'll leave Anne to play "houses" by herself," said George, who was longing to stretch her legsagain. "We'll go and get some heather for beds. And oh! - what about one of us keeping a watch onthe old wreck, to see who comes there?"
　　"Yes - that's important," said Julian at once. "I'll take first watch. The best place would be up on thecliff just above this cave. I can find a gorse bush that will hide me all right from anyone out at sea.
　　You others get the heather. We will take two-hourly watches. We can read if we like, so long as wekeep on looking up."
　　Dick and George went to get the heather. Julian climbed up the knotted rope that still hung downthrough the hole, tied firmly to the great old root of an enormous gorse bush. He pulled himself outon the cliff and lay on the heather panting.
　　He could see nothing but to sea at all except for some big steamer miles out on the sky-line. He laydown in the sun, enjoying the warmth that poured into every inch of his body. This look-out job wasgoing to be very nice!
　　61
　　He could hear Anne singing down in the cave as she tidied up her "house'. Her voice came upthrough the cave- roof hole, rather muffled. Julian smiled. He knew Anne was enjoying herselfthoroughly.
　　So she was. She had washed the few bits of crockery they had used for breakfast, in a mostconvenient little rain-pool outside the cave. Timmy used it for drinking-water too, but he didn't seemto mind Anne using it for washing-up water, though she apologised to him for doing so.
　　"I'm sorry if I spoil your drinking water, Timmy darling," she said, "but you are such a sensible dogthat I know if it suddenly tastes nasty to you, you will go off and find another rain-pool.""Woof!" said Timmy, and ran off to meet George, who was just arriving back with Dick, armed withmasses of soft, sweet-smelling heather for beds.
　　"Put the heather outside the cave, please George," said Anne. "I'll make the beds inside when I'mready."
　　"Right!" said George. "We'll go and get some more. Aren't we having fun?""Julian's gone up the rope to the top of the cliff," said Anne. "He'll yell if he sees anything unusual. Ihope he does, don't you?"
　　"It would be exciting," agreed Dick, putting down his heather on top of Timmy, and nearly buryinghim. "Oh sorry Timmy - are you there? Bad luck!"Anne had a very happy morning. She arranged everything beautifully on the shelf - crockery andknives and forks and spoons in one place - saucepan and kettle in another - tins of meat next, tins ofsoup together, tins of fruit neatly piled on top of one another. It really was a splendid larder anddresser!
　　She wrapped all the bread up in an old tablecloth they had brought, and put it at the back of the cavein the coolest place she could find. The containers of water went there too, and so did all the bottlesof drinks.
　　Then the little girl set to work to make the beds. She decided to make two nice big ones, one on eachside of the cave.
　　"George and I and Tim will have the one this side," she thought, busy patting down the heather intothe shape of a bed. "And Julian and Dick can have the other side. I shall want lots more heather. Oh,is that you, Dick? You're just in time! I want more heather."Soon the beds were made beautifully, and each had an old rug for an under-blanket, and two betterrugs for covers. Cushions made pillows.
　　62
　　"What a pity we didn't bring night-things," thought Anne. "I could have folded them neatly and putthem under the cushions. There! It all looks lovely. We've got a beautiful house."Julian came sliding down the rope from the cliff to the cave. He looked round admiringly. "My word,Anne - the cave does look fine! Everything in order and looking so tidy. You are a good little girl."Anne was pleased to hear Julian's praise, though she didn't like him calling her a little girl.
　　"Yes, it does look nice, doesn't it?" she said. "But why aren't you watching up on the cliff, Ju?""It's Dick's turn now," said Julian. "The two hours are up. Did we bring any biscuits? I feel as if Icould do with one or two, and I bet the others could too. Let's all go up to the cliff-top and have some.
　　George and Timmy are there with Dick."
　　Anne knew exactly where to put her hand on the tin of biscuits. She took out ten and climbed up tothe cliff-top. Julian went up on the rope. Soon all five were sitting by the big gorse-bush, nibbling atbiscuits, Timmy too. At least, he didn't nibble. He just swallowed.
　　The day passed very pleasantly and rather lazily. They took turns at being look-out, though Anne wasseverely scolded by Julian in the afternoon for falling asleep during her watch. She was very ashamedof herself and cried.
　　"You're too little to be a look-out, that's what it is," said Julian. "We three and Timmy had better doit."
　　"Oh, no, do let me too," begged poor Anne. "I never, never will fall asleep again. But the sun was sohot and . . ."
　　"Don't make excuses," said Julian. "It only makes things worse if you do. All right - we'll give youanother chance, Anne, and see if you are really big enough to do the things we do."But though they all took their turns, and kept a watch on the sea for any strange vessel, noneappeared. The children were disappointed. They did so badly want to know who had put that trunk onthe wreck and why, and what it contained.
　　"Better go to bed now," said Julian, when the sun sank low. "It's about nine o'clock. Come on!
　　I'm really looking forward to a sleep on those lovely heathery beds that Anne has made so nicely!"
13.在岛上的一天
　　在岛上的一天
　　第二天，孩子们醒来时几乎不知道自己在哪儿。太阳直射进洞口，首先照在乔治熟睡的脸上，把她惊醒了，她半睡半醒地躺着，不明白为什么她的床不像起初那么柔软了。
　　“可我不是在床上，我是在科林岛啊！”她突然想到。她坐起来，拍了安妮一下，“醒醒，贪睡虫！我们在岛上！”
　　很快他们都醒了，揉着惺忪的眼睛，“我今天还是要去找石南花铺床，”安妮说，“沙子一开始感觉很柔软，但过一会儿就变硬了。”
　　其他人都同意把石南花放在沙子上，再盖上毯子，这样他们就有很好的床了。
　　“住在洞里很有趣，”迪克说，“真想不到我们岛上有这么好的岩洞，还有城堡和地牢！我们真的很幸运。”
　　“我觉得身上又脏又黏，”朱利安说，“我们吃早餐前去洗个澡吧，然后吃冷火腿、面包、泡菜和果酱！”
　　“洗完澡我们会觉得很冷的。”乔治说，“我们最好点上我的小炉子，在洗澡的时候把水壶烧开。然后我们浑身哆嗦着回来的时候就可以做些热可可喝了。”
　　“嗯，是的，”安妮说，她以前从未在这么小的炉子上煮过东西，“让我来做。我来给水壶加点水。牛奶怎么办呢？”
　　“那堆东西里有一罐牛奶，”朱利安说，“我来打开，开罐器在哪里？”
　　令人恼火的是，谁也没有找到开罐器，最后朱利安在他的口袋里发现了，所以一切还算顺利。
　　安妮给小炉子加满了燃料酒精，点着了，又给水壶加满了水，放在炉子上面。然后孩子们去洗澡了。
　　“看！那边的礁石中间有一个游泳池！简直不可思议！”朱利安用手指着说，“我们以前竟没发现。天哪，这就像专门为我们设计的一个小游泳池！”
　　“科林游泳池，五便士一位！”迪克说，“但岛主免费！快走，它看上去棒极了！看海浪不停地拍击着礁石，朵朵浪花飞溅到游泳池里。简直太完美了！”
　　这真是一个可爱的礁石游泳池，水很深，很清澈，还不太凉。
　　孩子们玩得很尽兴，他们溅起水花，游来游去。乔治试着从一块礁石上跳下去，姿势很优美。
　　“乔治在水里简直无所不能，”安妮钦佩地说，“我希望能像乔治那样潜水和游泳，但我永远做不到。”
　　“从这里我们可以清楚地看到那艘沉船残骸，”朱利安从水里出来后说道，“糟糕！我们没有带毛巾。”
　　“我们用小毯子当毛巾吧，轮换着用。”迪克说道，“我去把最薄的那块拿来。哎，你们还记得昨天我们在沉船上看到的那个箱子吧？很奇怪，是不是？”
　　“是的，非常奇怪，”朱利安说，“我想不明白。我们要监视沉船，看看谁来取箱子。”
　　“我想，那些走私者，如果他们是走私者的话，会绕着岛的这边溜过来，悄悄地派船去沉船那里，”乔治说着，极力甩干身子，“我们最好严加监视，看看海面上有没有什么东西出现，比如小汽船、小木船或轮船。”
　　“对。我们不想让他们发现，”迪克说，“如果他们看到我们，就有了防备，肯定会立即放弃登岛，我们就什么也不会发现了。我建议大家轮流监视，这样我们就能及时发现情况，然后躲藏起来。”
　　“好主意！”朱利安说，“我身上干了，但不太暖和。我们跑到洞里去喝杯热饮，然后吃早餐。天哪，我能吃一整只鸡，还能吃一只鸭子，更不用说火鸡了。”
　　其他人笑了，他们都有同感。孩子们向岩洞跑去，在沙滩上奔跑，爬过几块礁石，来到岩洞前的海滩，走进洞里，洞口仍然阳光灿烂。
　　水壶里的水正在欢快地沸腾着，从锡壶口喷出一股蒸汽，“拿出火腿和一块面包，还有我们带来的那罐泡菜。”朱利安命令道，“我来开牛奶罐。乔治，你拿可可罐和那个水壶，要足够我们大家吃啊。”
　　“我太高兴了，”安妮坐在洞口的椅子上，吃着早餐说道，“这是一种美妙的感觉。像这样独自待在我们的岛上，能做我们喜欢做的事，真是太棒了。”
　　他们都有同感。天气很好，天空和大海是那么蓝。小伙伴们坐在那里，吃着喝着，望着大海，看着波浪在那艘沉船后面的礁石上溅起浪花，那真是一个礁石遍布的海岸。
　　“让我们把洞里的一切都布置好。”安妮说。安妮是这四个孩子当中最爱整洁的，一有机会，就喜欢玩“过家家”的游戏，“这就是我们的房子，我们的家，我们要做四张合适的床。我们每个人都有自己的床位。我们会把所有的东西都整齐地摆放在那个大石头架子上，那可是专门为我们做的！”
　　“我们让安妮一个人去玩‘过家家’吧，”乔治说，她又闲不住了，“我们去找些石南花铺床。我们当中要有人去监视那艘沉船，看看谁会来取货。”
　　“是的，这很重要。”朱利安马上说，“我先监视。监视的最好地点是在这个岩洞上方的悬崖上。我隐藏在金雀花丛里，海上的人不会发现。你们其他人去找石南花。监视每两小时轮换一次。我们可以在监视的时候看看书，但我们必须经常抬头看看。”
　　迪克和乔治去找石南花。岩洞里有一根悬挂着的打了结的绳子，它牢牢地拴在巨大金雀花灌木的老根上。朱利安顺着绳子爬上去，好不容易爬上悬崖顶的他，躺在金雀花上直喘粗气。
　　除了大海，他只看见几英里外的天际线处有一艘大轮船。他躺在阳光下，享受着温暖浸入他身体的每根神经。这个监视工作太好了！
　　他听到安妮在岩洞里整理“房子”时吟唱的歌声。她的声音从洞顶的窟窿传出来，显得相当低沉。朱利安笑了，他知道安妮玩得很开心。
　　她的确很开心。她在岩洞外的雨水坑里把他们早餐时用的餐具洗了一遍。蒂米也从雨水坑喝水，但它似乎并不介意安妮用雨水坑的水来洗碗，尽管她为此向它道了歉。
　　“亲爱的蒂米，如果我糟蹋了你的饮用水，我感到很抱歉。”她说，“但你是一只很懂事的狗，我知道如果你觉得水突然变了味，你会去找另一个雨水坑，对吧？”
　　“汪！”蒂米叫着跑去迎接乔治。乔治和迪克刚刚回来，手里拿着一大堆铺床用的又软又香的石南花。
　　“乔治请把石南花放在洞外，”安妮说，“我把床准备好后再拿进来。”
　　“好的，”乔治说，“我们再去弄一些来。好开心哪！”
　　“朱利安已经顺着绳子爬到悬崖顶上去了，”安妮说，“如果他发现异常情况，就会大声喊我们。我希望他会发现，你觉得呢？”
　　“那太棒了，”迪克说着把石南花放在蒂米身上，差点把它埋了起来，“哦，对不起，蒂米——你在那儿呀！是我不好！”
　　安妮度过了一个愉快的早晨。她把碗碟、刀叉、勺子整齐地摆放在架子上的一个地方，平底锅和水壶放在另一个地方，然后把肉罐头、汤罐头、水果罐头摆在一起，所有这些都整齐码放。这真是一个精美的储藏室和餐具台！
　　她把所有的面包都用他们带来的旧桌布包好，放在岩洞后面最凉爽的地方。装水的容器和所有的瓶装饮料也放在那里。
　　然后，小女孩开始整理床铺。她决定在洞的两边各放一张漂亮的大床。
　　“我和乔治、蒂米住这边。”她想，一边忙着把石南花铺成床的形状，“朱利安和迪克住另一边。我需要更多的石南花。是你吗，迪克？你来得正好！我需要更多的石南花。”
　　很快两张漂亮的床就做好了，每张床上都有一块旧毯子压脚，还有两块更好的毯子当被子盖，垫子当枕头用。
　　“真可惜我们没带夜间用的东西。”安妮想，“我本可以把它们叠得整整齐齐，放在垫子下面。啊！这一切看起来好温馨哦。我们的家多么漂亮啊！”
　　朱利安从悬崖上滑下来，来到岩洞。他羡慕地四下张望着，“我的天哪，安妮！岩洞看上去真不错，一切井然有序，看上去很整洁，你这个小姑娘真是太棒了。”
　　听到朱利安的表扬，安妮很高兴，尽管她不喜欢他叫她小姑娘。
　　“是的，看起来不错，”她说，“可是你为什么不在悬崖上监视呢？”
　　“现在轮到迪克了，”朱利安说，“两个小时到了。我们带饼干了吗？我想吃几块，其他人应该也想吃了。我们到悬崖顶上去吃点吧，乔治、迪克还有蒂米都在悬崖顶上。”
　　安妮知道饼干罐放在什么地方。她拿出十块，爬到悬崖顶上。
　　朱利安顺着绳子爬上去。很快，他们坐在金雀花丛中，吃着饼干，蒂米也吃，但是它没有咬，是直接吞下去的。
　　这一天，孩子们过得很愉快，非常惬意。他们轮流值班，不过，下午的时候，安妮被朱利安狠狠地批评了一顿，因为她在值班时睡着了。她为自己的行为感到羞愧，哭了起来。
　　朱利安说：“你太小了，不能当瞭望员。我们三个，还有蒂米当瞭望员吧。”
　　“哦，不，让我也当吧，”可怜的安妮恳求道，“我再也不睡觉了。那会儿是太阳太热了……”
　　“不要找借口，”朱利安说，“如果你找借口只会让事情变得更糟。好吧，安妮，我们再给你一次机会，看看你是否真的长大了，有能力做我们做的事情。”
　　虽然他们都轮流守望海面，寻找任何可疑的船只，但什么也没有出现。孩子们大失所望，他们非常想知道是谁把箱子放在沉船上？为什么把箱子放在沉船上？里面装的是什么？
　　“还是去睡觉吧，”太阳落山后，朱利安说，“现在差不多九点钟了。睡吧，我真想睡在安妮铺了石南花的软床上！”
Chapter Fourteen DISTURBANCE IN THE NIGHT
Chapter Fourteen DISTURBANCE IN THE NIGHT
　　IT was dark in the cave, not really quite dark enough to light a candle, but the cave looked so nice bycandlelight that it was fun to light one. So Anne took down the candle-stick and lighted the candle. Atonce queer shadows jumped all round the cave, and it became a rather exciting place, not at all likethe cave they knew by daylight!
　　"I wish we could have a fire," said Anne.
　　"We'd be far too hot," said Julian. "And it would smoke us out. You can't have a fire in a cave likethis. There's no chimney."
　　"Yes, there is," said Anne, pointing to the hole in the roof. "If we lighted a fire just under that hole, itwould act as a chimney, wouldn't it?"
　　"It might," said Dick, thoughtfully. "But I don't think so. We'd simply get the cave full of stiflingsmoke, and we wouldn't be able to sleep for choking.""Well, couldn't we light a fire at the cave entrance then?" said Anne who felt that a real home oughtto have a fire somewhere. "Just to keep away wild beasts, say! That's what the people of old timesdid. It says so in my history book. They lighted fires at the cave entrance at night to keep away anywild animal that might be prowling around.""Well, what wild beasts do you think are likely to come and peep into this cave?" asked Julian, lazily,finishing up a cup of cocoa. "Lions? Tigers? Or perhaps you are afraid of an elephant or two."Everyone laughed. "No - I don't really think animals like that would come," said Anne. "Only - itwould be nice to have a red, glowing fire to watch when we go to sleep.""Perhaps Anne thinks the rabbits might come in and nibble our toes or something," said Dick.
　　"Woof!" said Tim, pricking up his ears as he always did at the mention of rabbits.
　　"I don't think we ought to have a fire," said Julian, "because it might be seen out at sea and give awarning to anyone thinking of coming to the island to do a bit of smuggling.""Oh no, Julian - the entrance to this cave is so well-hidden that I'm sure no one could see a fire out tosea," said George, at once. "There's that line of high rocks in front, which must hide it completely. Ithink it would be rather fun to have a fire. It would light up the cave so queerly and excitingly."64
　　"Oh good, George!" said Anne, delighted to find someone agreeing with her.
　　"Well, we can't possibly fag out and get sticks for it now," said Dick, who was far too comfortable tomove.
　　"You don't need to," said Anne, eagerly. "I got plenty myself today, and stored them at the back ofthe cave, in case we wanted a fire."
　　"Isn't she a good little house-wife!" said Julian, in great admiration. "She may go to sleep when she'slook-out, but she's wide-awake enough when it comes to making a house for us out of a cave! Allright, Anne - we'll make a fire for you!"They all got up and fetched the sticks from the back of the cave. Anne had been to the jackdaw towerand had picked up armfuls that the birds had dropped when making their nests in the tower. Theybuilt them up to make a nice little fire. Julian got some dried seaweed too, to drop into it.
　　They lit the fire at the cave entrance, and the dry sticks blazed up at once. The children went back totheir heather-beds, and lay down on them, watching the red flames leaping and crackling.
　　The red glow lit up the cave and made it very weird and exciting.
　　"This is lovely," said Anne, half-asleep. "Really lovely. Oh Timmy, move a bit do. You're so heavyon my feet. Here, George, pull Timothy over to your side. You're used to him lying on you.""Good-night," said Dick, sleepily. ''The fire is dying down, but I can't be bothered to put any morewood on it. I'm sure all the lions and tigers and bears and elephants have been frightened away.""Silly!" said Anne. "You needn't tease me about it - you've enjoyed it as much as I have! Goodnight."They all fell asleep and dreamed peacefully of many things. Julian awoke with a jump. Some queernoise had awakened him. He lay still, listening.
　　Timothy was growling deeply, right down in his throat. "R-r-r-r-r-r-r," he went. "Gr-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r!"George awoke too, and put out her hand sleepily. "What's the matter, Tim?" she said.
　　"He's heard something, George," said Julian, in a low voice from his bed on the other side of thecave.
　　65
　　George sat up cautiously. Timmy was still growling. "Sh!" said George and he stopped. He wassitting up straight, his ears well cocked.
　　"Perhaps it's the smugglers come in the night," whispered George, and a funny prickly feeling randown her back. Somehow smugglers in the day time were rather exciting and quite welcome- but at night they seemed different. George didn't at all want to meet any just then!
　　"I'm going out to see if I can spy anything," said Julian, getting off his bed quietly, so as not to wakeDick. I'll go up the rope to the top of the cliff. I can see better from there.""Take my torch," said George. But Julian didn't want it.
　　"No, thanks. I can feel the way up that knotted rope quite well, whether I can see or not," he said.
　　He went up the rope in the dark, his body twisting round as the rope turned. He climbed up on to thecliff and looked out to sea. It was a very dark night, and he could see no ship at all, not even thewreck. It was far too dark.
　　"Pity there's no moon," thought Julian. "I might be able to see something then."He watched for a few minutes, and then George's voice came through the hole in the roof, coming outqueerly at his feet.
　　"Julian! Is there anything to see? Shall I come up?""Nothing at all," said Julian. "Is Timmy still growling?""Yes, when I take my hand off his collar," said George. "I can't imagine what's upset him."Suddenly Julian caught sight of something. It was a light, a good way beyond the line of rocks.
　　He watched in excitement. That would be just about where the wreck was! Yes - it must be someoneon the wreck with a lantern!
　　"George! Come up!" he said, putting his head inside the hole.
　　George came up, hand over hand, like a monkey, leaving Timothy growling below. She sat by Julianon the cliff-top. "See the wreck - look, over there!" said Julian. "At least, you can't see the wreckitself, it's too dark - but you can see a lantern that someone has put there.""Yes - that's someone on our wreck, with a lantern!" said George, feeling excited. "Oh, I wonder ifit's the smugglers - coming to bring more things.""Or somebody fetching that trunk," said Julian. "Well, we'll know tomorrow, for we'll go and see.
　　Look! - whoever is there is moving off now - the light of the lantern is going lower - they must begetting into a boat by the side of the wreck. And now the light's gone out."66
　　The children strained their ears to hear if they could discover the splash of oars or the sound of voicesover the water. They both thought they could hear voices.
　　"The boat must have gone off to join a ship or something," said Julian. "I believe I can see a faintlight right out there - out to sea, look! Maybe the boat is going to it."There was nothing more to see or hear, and soon the two of them slid down the knotted rope back tothe cave. They didn't wake the others, who were still sleeping peacefully. Timothy leapt up andlicked Julian and George, whining joyfully. He did not growl any more.
　　"You're a good dog, aren't you?" said Julian, patting him. "Nothing ever escapes your sharp ears,does it?"
　　Timothy settled down on George's feet again. It was plain that whatever it was that had disturbed himhad gone. It must have been the presence of the stranger or strangers on the old wreck. Well, theywould go there in the morning and see if they could discover what had been taken away or broughtthere in the night.
　　Anne and Dick were most indignant the next morning when they heard Julian's tale. "You might havewaked us!" said Dick, crossly.
　　"We would have if there had been anything much to see," said George. "But there was only just thelight from a lantern, and nothing else except that we thought we heard the sound of voices."When the tide was low enough the children and Timothy set off over the rocks to the wreck.
　　They clambered up and stood on the slanting, slippery deck. They looked towards the locker wherethe little trunk had stood. The door of the locker was shut this time.
　　Julian slid down towards it and tried to pull it open. Someone had stuffed a piece of wood in to keepthe locker from swinging open. Julian pulled it out. Then the door opened easily.
　　"Anything else in there?" said George, stepping carefully over the slimy deck to Julian.
　　"Yes," said Julian. "Look! Tins of food! And cups and plates and things - just as if someone wasgoing to come and live on the island too! Isn't it funny? The trunk is still here too, locked as before.
　　And here are some candles - and a little lamp - and a bundle of rags. Whatever are they here for?"It really was a puzzle. Julian frowned for a few minutes, trying to think it out.
　　"It looks as if someone is going to come and stay on the island for a bit - probably to wait there andtake in whatever goods are going to be smuggled. Well - we shall be on the look-out for them, day ornight!"
　　67
　　They left the wreck, feeling excited. They had a fine hiding-place in their cave - no one couldpossibly find them there. And, from their hiding-place they could watch anyone coming to and fromthe wreck, and from the wreck to the island.
　　"What about our cove, where we put our boat?" said George, suddenly. "They might use that cove,you know - if they came in a boat. It's rather dangerous to reach the island from the wreck, if anyonetried to get to the rocky beach nearby."
　　"Well - if anyone came to our cove, they'd see our boat," said Dick, in alarm. "We'd better hide it,hadn't we?"
　　"How?" said Anne, thinking that it would be a difficult thing to hide a boat as big as theirs.
　　"Don't know," said Julian. "We'll go and have a look."All four and Timmy went off to the cove into which they had rowed their boat. The boat was pulledhigh up, out of reach of the waves. George explored the cove well, and then had an idea.
　　"Do you think we could pull the boat round this big rock? It would just about hide it, though anyonegoing round the rock would see it at once."The others thought it would be worth while trying, anyway. So, with much panting and puffing, theyhauled the boat round the rock, which almost completely hid her.""Good!" said George, going down into the cove to see if very much of the boat showed. "A bit of herdoes show still. Let's drape it with seaweed!"So they draped the prow of the boat with all the seaweed they could find at hand, and after that,unless anyone went deliberately round the big rock, the boat really was not noticeable at all.
　　"Good!" said Julian, looking at his watch. "I say - it's long past tea-time - and, you know, while we'vebeen doing all this with the boat, we quite forgot to have someone on the look-out post on the cliff-top. What idiots we are!"
　　"Well, I don't expect anything has happened since we've been away from the cave," said Dick,putting a fine big bit of seaweed on the prow of the boat, as a last touch. "I bet the smugglers willonly come at night."
　　"I dare say you're right," said Julian. "I think we'd better keep a look-out at night, too. The lookoutcould take rugs up to the cliff-top and curl up there.""Timmy could be with whoever is keeping watch," said Anne, "Then if the look-out goes to sleep bymistake, Timmy would growl and wake them up if he saw anything."68
　　"You mean, when you go to sleep," said Dick, grinning. "Come on - let's get back to the cave andhave some tea."
　　And then Timothy suddenly began to growl again!
14.深夜惊魂
　　深夜惊魂
　　洞里很黑，但还没有黑到需要点蜡烛的程度。不过点了蜡烛的话，洞里倒是会变得别有趣味。安妮取来蜡烛点燃，奇形怪状的影子立刻出现在洞中，并且跳来跳去的，看着让人兴奋，跟白天的洞一点都不一样！
　　“要是能生火就更好了。”安妮说。
　　“生了火就太热了。”朱利安说，“而且，我们会被烟熏出去的。
　　在洞里可不能生火，因为没有烟囱。”
　　“谁说没有啊，”安妮指着屋顶上的窟窿说，“如果我们在洞里生火，窟窿就能起到烟囱的作用，不是吗？”
　　“可能吧，”迪克若有所思地说，“但我觉得不行。到时候，洞里会充满令人窒息的烟雾，熏得我们无法睡觉。”
　　“那我们就在洞口生火，这样可以吗？”安妮说，她觉得一个真正的家应该生火，“过去的人就是这么做的。我记得历史书上是这么写的，‘晚上，他们在洞口点起了火，免得那些游荡的野兽闯进洞中。’”
　　“那么，你认为会有什么野兽来窥探这个岩洞呢？”朱利安懒洋洋地问，他刚刚喝完一杯可可，“是狮子、老虎，还是大象呢？”
　　大家都笑了起来。“当然不是，这里怎么可能有你说的那些动物呢。”安妮说，“只是……我觉得在我们睡觉的时候，跟前有一团熊熊燃烧的火焰，那多有意思啊。”
　　“也许，安妮认为会有兔子进来咬我们的脚趾。”迪克说。
　　“汪！”蒂米竖起耳朵叫了一声。每次一有人提到兔子，它都是这种反应。
　　“我倒是认为我们不该生火。”朱利安说，“因为这样做可能会被海上的人看到，如果有人想来岛上进行走私活动，看到这里有火肯定就不会来了。”
　　“不过，朱利安，你看这里多隐蔽啊，我敢肯定，海上没人能看到这里的火，”乔治立刻说，“因为前面那排高高的礁石把洞口完全挡住了。我想生火一定会很有趣的，这会把岩洞照得又奇妙又刺激。”
　　“你说得对，乔治！”安妮说，她很高兴有人赞同她的看法。
　　迪克说：“可是，我们现在太累了，不可能去拾柴火了。”他待得太舒服了，都不想动了。
　　“谁都不用去。”安妮急切地说，“今天我拾了不少柴火，放在了岩洞后面，就是为生火用的。”
　　“她可真是个好主妇！”朱利安满怀钦佩地朝着其他人说，“虽然她放哨的时候常常睡着，但在把岩洞改作房子这件事上，却非常清醒！好吧，安妮，我们来帮你生火！”
　　他们都站了起来，去洞的后面取柴火。这些柴火都是鸟儿筑巢时掉落的树枝，是安妮在寒鸦塔那儿拾来的。他们把柴火堆起来，烧起一堆漂亮的篝火，朱利安还弄了一些干海草投进火堆。
　　干树枝在洞口噼噼啪啪地燃烧着。孩子们回到他们的草床上，躺下来，看着跳个不停的红色火焰。红光照亮了岩洞，使洞里的一切显得十分神秘，看起来很令人心醉。
　　“看着这团篝火实在太美妙了！”安妮似睡非睡地说，“哦，蒂米，动一动，你压着我的脚了。乔治，快把蒂米拉到你那边去，你已经习惯它在你身边睡觉了，我还不太习惯。”
　　“晚安。”迪克睡意蒙眬地说，“火快灭了，但我实在懒得再去添柴火了。我敢肯定，所有的狮子、老虎、熊和大象都已经被吓跑了。”
　　“哼，你不用取笑我，”安妮说，“因为我知道你和我一样喜欢篝火！晚安。”
　　孩子们平静地进入了梦乡。突然，朱利安被一些奇怪的声音惊醒了。他躺在那里，侧耳倾听。
　　蒂米在喉咙里低声咆哮着。
　　乔治也醒了，她睡意蒙眬地伸出手摸了摸蒂米。“怎么了，蒂米？”她问道。
　　“乔治，它一定是听到了什么。”朱利安在另一边的床上小声说。
　　乔治小心翼翼地坐起来。蒂米仍在低吼，“别叫了，蒂米！”乔治命令道。蒂米不叫了，但它坐直了身子，机警地竖起了耳朵。
　　“说不定是走私的人来了。”乔治低声说，一股寒意滑过她的后背。不知为什么，白天说到走私者的时候还那么令人兴奋呢，可到了晚上，似乎就变得不一样了，乔治不想在深夜里见到任何人！
　　“我得出去看看能不能发现什么。”朱利安说着，悄悄从床上爬了起来，以免吵醒迪克，“我顺着绳子爬到悬崖顶上去，从那里可以看得更清楚。”
　　“带上我的手电筒。”乔治说。
　　“不，谢谢。我记得那根打结的绳子的位置。”他说。
　　他在黑暗中爬上绳子，身体随绳子扭来扭去。到了悬崖上，朱利安向海面上望去，可他什么都看不见，甚至连沉船也没看见，因为天实在太黑了。
　　“要是有月亮就好了，”朱利安想，“那样的话，也许我能看到些什么。”
　　他观察了几分钟，乔治的声音从洞里传出来：“朱利安！你看到什么了吗？需要我上去吗？”
　　“什么也看不到。”朱利安说，“蒂米还在叫吗？”
　　“对，只要我的手一离开它的项圈，它就开始叫。”乔治说，“不知道是什么让它这么烦躁。”
　　突然，朱利安看到了一盏灯，就在礁石线那边。他兴奋地观察着，那里大概就是沉船的位置！对，一定是有人提着灯笼走在沉船上！
　　“乔治！快上来！”他把头伸进窟窿里急切地说道。
　　乔治像猴子一样，双手交替着爬了上来，丢下蒂米在下面低声咆哮。她在朱利安旁边坐下，“看那边！”朱利安用手指着远处说，“虽然看不见沉船，但你可以看见放在那里的灯笼。”
　　“没错，有人提着灯笼到了沉船上！”乔治兴奋地说，“是不是走私者又带来了更多的东西呢？”
　　“或者有人去取那个箱子，”朱利安说，“明天我们就知道了。
　　看！那人现在要离开，因为灯光向下落了，他们一定是跳上了停在沉船边上的小船。现在灯笼灭了。”
　　两个孩子都竖起耳朵，想看看是否能听到划桨声或者其他声音。他们似乎真的听到了。
　　“那条小船一定是奔轮船去了。”朱利安说，“我看见了一束微弱的光，就在那儿，看到了吗！也许小船就是奔它去的。”
　　一切又恢复了平静，不一会儿，他们俩顺着那根打结的绳子滑回了岩洞。他们没有叫醒迪克和安妮，两个孩子还在沉沉地睡着。
　　蒂米不再咆哮了，它从地上一跃而起，一边亲热地舔着朱利安和乔治，一边快活地哼哼着。
　　“你真是只好狗，”朱利安拍了拍它说，“没有什么能逃过你敏锐的耳朵，是吧？”
　　蒂米又在乔治的脚边趴下来，很明显，惊扰它睡觉的人已经离开了，一定就是刚刚在沉船上的陌生人。他俩打算明天一早就去那里，看看能不能发现晚上被带走或带来的东西。
　　第二天早上，安妮和迪克听到朱利安讲述昨晚的事情时非常气愤，“你们为什么不叫醒我们？！”迪克生气地说。
　　“如果有什么可看的，我们就叫醒你们了。”乔治说，“当时就只有一盏发光的灯，和似有似无的说话声，别的什么都没有。”
　　退潮时，孩子们立刻带着蒂米直奔沉船。他们爬上沉船，站在倾斜的滑溜溜的甲板上，朝那个放着小箱子的橱柜望去，但这次橱柜的门被关上了。
　　朱利安走到橱柜前面，想把它拉开，但发现有人往门缝里塞了一块木头，这样做就是为了防止柜门自己打开。朱利安把木头拉出来，柜门轻轻地开了。
　　“里面还有别的东西吗？”乔治边说，边小心翼翼地挪过滑溜溜的甲板，走到朱利安面前。
　　“有。”朱利安说，“你看！有罐头，还有杯子、盘子和其他东西，好像有人也要来岛上生活一样，这太奇怪了！箱子还在这里，像以前一样锁着。这儿还有一些蜡烛、一盏小灯和一捆破布。他们这是要做什么？”
　　这真是个谜。朱利安皱着眉头，努力想弄明白。
　　“看起来好像有人要来岛上住一段时间，可能会在这里等着接收走私的货物。从今天起，无论白天还是晚上，我们都要监视他们的行动。”
　　他们离开了沉船，每个人都很兴奋。他们在岩洞里有一个很好的藏身之处，没有人能找到他们。而且，从他们的藏身之处可以看到任何进出沉船的人，或者从沉船上来岛上的人。
　　“那我们的小海湾呢，我们是不是不该继续把船留在那里？”乔治突然说，“要知道，如果他们是坐船来的，就可能会到那个海湾……”
　　“是啊，如果有人来我们的小海湾，就会看到我们的船。”迪克惊恐地说，“我们最好把它藏起来。”
　　“怎么藏啊？”安妮说，心里想着要把他们那条船藏起来可不是件容易的事。
　　“现在还不知道。”朱利安说，“走，我们去看看吧。”
　　四个人带着蒂米，一起去了他们小船所在的海湾。乔治仔细看了一遍小海湾，有了主意，“我们把小船放在这块大礁石后面怎么样？大礁石差不多能把船全部挡住，除非绕到礁石后面，否则是看不到它的。”
　　其他人认为不妨一试。于是，他们气喘吁吁地把船拖到礁石后面。果然，礁石几乎把船完全遮挡住了。
　　“等一下。”乔治说，她走到小海湾那里，想看看船还有多少露在外面，“还露一点点，我们可以用海草把它罩上！”
　　于是，他们把附近能找到的海草全都铺在了船上面，这样一来，除非有人故意绕着大礁石转圈，否则这条船根本不会引起人注意。
　　“可以了！”朱利安说着，看了看表，“哎呀，早就过了下午茶的时间了。我们净顾着隐藏小船，竟然忘了在悬崖顶上留人放哨，真是够白痴的。”
　　“从我们离开岩洞到现在，应该不会发生什么事的。”迪克说着，把最后一大块海草放在船头上，“我敢打赌走私者只会在晚上来。”
　　“也许你说得对。”朱利安说，“不过，我们晚上最好要留神。放哨的人可以把毯子带到悬崖顶上去，裹着毯子值班。”
　　“蒂米可以和每个值班的人在一起，”安妮说，“如果值班人不小心睡着了，蒂米看到可疑东西时，就会咆哮着把他叫醒。”
　　“你是想说你睡觉的时候吧？”迪克笑着说，“走吧，我们回洞里去吃下午茶。”
　　突然，蒂米又咆哮起来！
Chapter Fifteen WHO IS ON THE ISLAND?
Chapter Fifteen WHO IS ON THE ISLAND?
　　"Sh!" said Julian, at once. "Get down behind this bush, quick, everyone!"They had left the cove and were walking towards the castle when Timmy growled. Now they allcrouched behind a mass of brambles, their hearts beating fast.
　　"Don't growl, Timmy," said George, in Timothy's nearest ear. He stopped at once, but he stood stiffand quivering, on the watch.
　　Julian peeped through the bush, parting the brambles and scratching his hands. He could just seesomebody in the courtyard - one person - two persons - maybe three. He strained his eyes to try andsee, but even as he looked, they disappeared.
　　"I believe they've moved those big stones over the entrance to the dungeons, and have gone downthere," he whispered. "Stay here, and I'll creep out a bit and see. I won't let anyone spot me."He came back and nodded. "Yes - they've gone down the dungeons. Do you think they can be thesmugglers? Do you suppose they are storing their smuggled goods down there? It would be amarvellous place, of course."
　　"Let's get back to the cave while they are underground," said George. "I'm so afraid Timmy will givethe game away by barking. He's just bursting himself trying not to make some sort of noise.""Come on, then!" said Julian. "Don't go across the courtyard - make for the shore and we'll scrambleround it till we get to the cave. Then one of us can pop up through the hole and hide behind that biggorse bush there to see who the smugglers are. They must have come in by boat either from thewreck, or by rowing cleverly through the rocks off-shore."69
　　They got to the cave at last and went in. But no sooner had Julian shinned up the rope, helped by theothers, than Timothy disappeared! He ran out of the cave while the others' backs were turned, andwhen George turned round there was no Timmy to be seen!
　　"Timmy!" she called in a low voice. "Timmy! Where are you?"But no answer came! Timmy had gone off on his own. If only the smugglers didn't see him!
　　What a bad dog he was to do that!
　　But Timmy had smelt something exciting - he had smelt a smell he knew - a dog-smell - and hemeant to find the owner of it and bite off his ears and tail! "Gr-r-r-r-r-r!" Timmy was not going toallow dogs on his island!
　　Julian sat close beside the gorse bush, watching all round. There was nothing to be seen on the wreck,and there was no ship out to sea. Probably the boat that had brought the strangers to the island washidden down below among the rocks. Julian looked behind him, towards the castle -and even as he looked, he saw an astonishing sight!
　　A dog was sniffing about the bushes not far away - and creeping up behind him, all his hackles up,was Timothy! Timothy was stalking the dog as if he were a cat stalking a rabbit! The other dogsuddenly heard him and leapt round, facing Timothy. Timmy flung himself on the dog with a blood-curdling howl, and the dog howled in fright.
　　Julian watched in horror, not knowing what to do. The two dogs made a fearful noise, especially theother dog whose howls of terror and yelps of rage resounded everywhere.
　　"This will bring the smugglers up, and they will see Timmy and know there's someone on the island,"thought Julian. "Oh, blow you, Timmy! - why didn't you stay with George and keep quiet?"From the walls of the ruined castle came three figures, running pell-mell to see what was happeningto their dog - and Julian stared at them in the very greatest amazement - for the three people were noother than Mr. Stick, Mrs. Stick and Edgar!
　　"Golly!" said Julian, crawling round the bush to get to the hole quickly. "They've come after us!
　　They've guessed we've gone here and they've come to look for us, the beasts, to make us go back!
　　Well, they won't find us! But oh, what a pity Timmy's given the show away!"There came a shrill whistle from down below him. It was George, who, hearing the row from thedogs, was feeling worried, and had sent out her piercing whistle for Timmy. It was a whistle the 70dog always obeyed, and he let go his hold of the dog and shot off to the cliff-top at once, just as thethree Sticks arrived on the scene, and picked up their bleeding, whining mongrel.
　　Edgar tore after Timmy, up to the cliff-top. Julian dropped down to the cave when he spotted Edgarappearing. Timmy ran to the hole and dropped bodily down, landing almost on top of Julian. Heflung himself on George.
　　"Shut up, shut up!" said George, in an urgent whisper to the excited dog. "Do you want to give ourhiding-place away, you idiot?"
　　Edgar, panting and puffing, arrived on the cliff-top, and was completely amazed to see Timothyapparently disappear into the solid earth. He hunted about for a bit, but it was clear that the dog wasno longer on the cliff.
　　Mr. and Mrs. Stick came up too. "Where did that dog go?" shouted Mrs. Stick. "What was he like?""He looked awfully like that horrible dog of the children's," said Edgar. His voice could clearly beheard by everyone down in the cave. The children kept as quiet as mice.
　　"But it couldn't be!" came Mrs. Stick's voice. "The children have gone home - we saw them, and thedog too, making off towards the railway. It must be some sort of stray dog left here by a tripper.""Well, where is he, then?" said Mr. Stick's hoarse voice. "Can't see no dog anywhere about now.""He disappeared into the earth," said Edgar, in a surprised voice.
　　Mr. Stick made a rude and scornful noise. "You tell lovely tales, you do," he said. "Disappeared intothe earth! What next? Fell over the cliff, I should think. Well, he got his teeth into poor Tinker goodand proper. My word, if I see that dog, I'll shoot him!""He might have some hiding-place about this cliff," said Mrs. Stick. "Let's have a look!"The children sat as quiet as mice. George with a warning hand on Timmy's collar. They could hearthat the Sticks were really very near. Julian expected one of them to fall down the hole at anymoment!
　　But mercifully they didn't happen on the hole that led down to the cave. They stood quite near to it,though, while they were discussing the problem.
　　"If it's the children's dog, then those tiresome kids must have come to this island, instead of goinghome," said Mrs. Stick. "That would upset our plan all right! We shall have to find out. I'll have nopeace till I know."
　　71
　　"We can soon find out," said Mr. Stick. "No need to worry about that. Their boat will be heresomewhere - and they'll all be about, too! It's impossible for four children, a dog and a boat to behidden on this small island once anyone starts hunting for them! Edgar, you go round that way.
　　Clara, you get along round about the castle. They may be hiding somewhere in the ruins. I'll have alook about here."
　　The children crouched together in the cave. How they hoped that their boat would not be found!
　　How they hoped that no one would find any traces of them at all! Timmy growled softly, wishing thathe could go and find that Stinker-dog again! It had been lovely to bite his ears hard.
　　Edgar was half-scared of finding the children, and a good deal more scared of coming up againstTimmy somewhere. So he did not make much of a search for either the children or the boat. He wentinto the cove where the boat had been pulled up, and although he saw traces where the vessel hadbeen hauled up, barely smoothed out by the sea-water at high-tide, he did not notice the seaweedyprow of the boat sticking out round the rock behind which it was hidden.
　　"Nothing here!" he called to his mother, who was going round and about the ruins, looking into everylikely nook. But she found nothing either, and neither did Mr. Stick.
　　"Couldn't have been the children's dog," said Mr. Stick, at last. "They'd be here if he was, and sowould their boat, but there's no sign of them at all. That dog must have been some wild stray.
　　Have to look out for him, no doubt about it. Gone wild, I should think."The children relaxed after about an hour, thinking that the Sticks must have given up looking forthem. They boiled the kettle to make some tea, and Anne began to cut some sandwiches. Timmy wastied up in case he wandered out again to look for Stinker.
　　They ate their tea quietly, not speaking above a whisper. "The Sticks haven't come here to look forus, after all," said Julian. "It's quite plain from what they said that they thought we had gone to catchthe train home, taking George and Timmy with us.""Then what are they here for?" demanded George, fiercely. "It's our island! They've no right here.
　　Let's go and turn them off! They're scared of Timmy. We'll take him with us and say we'll set him onto them if they don't clear out."
　　"No, George," said Julian, "Do be sensible. We don't want them rushing off and telling your father weare here, or he may lose his temper and come flying home to order us back. And -there's another thing I've thought of."
　　"What?", asked the others, seeing Julian's eyes gleam in the way they did when he had an idea.
　　72
　　"Well," said Julian, "don't you think it's possible that the Sticks are something to do with thesmugglers? Don't you think they may come here to take off smuggled goods, or to hide them till theycan take them off in safety? Mr. Stick is a sailor, isn't he? He would know all about smuggling. I bethe's in the pay of the smugglers all right.""I believe you're right!" said George, in excitement. "Well - we'll wait till the Sticks have gone, andthen we'll go down into the dungeons and see if they've hidden anything there! We'll find out theirlittle game and stop it! It will be terribly thrilling, won't it?"
15.谁在岛上？
　　谁在岛上？
　　“嘘——”朱利安马上说，“大家快躲到树丛后面去，快！”
　　就在小伙伴们准备离开小海湾，正打算去城堡的时候，蒂米突然叫了起来。朱利安一声令下，他们全部躲到了一堆荆棘后面，心跳得厉害。
　　“别叫，蒂米。”乔治贴着蒂米的耳朵说。蒂米立刻停止吼叫，但它紧绷着身子站在那里，愤怒地抖动着，警觉地目视前方。
　　朱利安拨开灌木丛向外窥视，荆棘扎破了他的手。他看到院子里进来了一个人……两个人……也许是三个人。他睁大眼睛盯着他们看，但突然，人一下子消失了。
　　“我想他们应该是把地牢入口的那些大石头挪走了，现在进到地牢里去了。”他低声说，“你们待在这儿，我要爬出去看看。别担心，我不会让任何人发现的。”
　　不一会儿，朱利安回来了，他点了点头，说：“没错，他们是去了地牢。你们说，他们会是走私者吗？他们会不会把走私货物藏在那里？不得不说，那是一个绝妙的地方。”
　　“趁他们还在地牢的时候，我们回到洞里去吧，”乔治说，“我真怕蒂米会叫上几声暴露了我们。它正在拼命克制自己不发出声音。”
　　“我们走吧！”朱利安说，“记着，别从院子里过去，我们绕着岸边走，从那里回岩洞去。到时候，我们中的一个人可以从窟窿出来，躲在灌木丛后面，看看走私者是谁。他们一定是从沉船那儿来的，或者是巧妙地绕过暗礁划船来的。”
　　他们终于回到了岩洞。朱利安在其他人的帮助下，爬上绳子准备察看外面情况，就在他刚从洞口钻出来的时候，蒂米不见了！
　　“蒂米！”乔治低声叫道，“蒂米！你在哪儿？”
　　但是没有回答，蒂米自己溜掉了！但愿走私者不会看见它！这只狗这次真是不乖！
　　原来，蒂米闻到了一种令它兴奋的气味——一种熟悉的狗的气味。它打算找到气味的主人，咬掉它的耳朵和尾巴！它不允许其他狗进入它的领地！
　　朱利安坐在荆棘丛后面，四下张望。沉船上没有人，海面上也没有船，也许陌生人乘坐的那条船被藏在了礁石后面了。朱利安又回头看向城堡——就在这时，他看到了惊人的一幕！
　　一只狗在不远处的灌木丛中嗅来嗅去，而在它身后小心翼翼跟上来的不就是蒂米吗！蒂米脖子上的毛直立着，正在跟踪那只狗，就像猫跟踪兔子一样！那只狗突然听到了声音，一回头正好与蒂米打了个照面。蒂米狂吠着扑向那只狗，那只狗立刻惨叫起来，场面令人毛骨悚然。
　　朱利安惊恐地看着它们，不知道怎么办才好。两只狗发出了可怕的声音，特别是另一只狗，它惊恐的惨叫声四处回荡。
　　“狗的叫声会把走私者招来的，到时候他们就会看到蒂米，知道岛上还有别人。”朱利安想，“唉，蒂米这个大笨蛋，你为什么不安安静静地和乔治待在一起呢？”
　　废弃的城堡墙上，出现了三个人影，他们正匆匆忙忙跑过来，想看看他们的狗出了什么事。朱利安盯着那三个人目瞪口呆，因为那三个人不是别人，正是斯蒂克先生、斯蒂克太太和埃德加！
　　“天哪！”朱利安一边说，一边从灌木丛快速爬回洞口，“他们来找我们了！他们肯定是猜到我们到这儿来了，想找我们回去！哼！
　　他们本来不会找到我们的，都怪蒂米暴露了目标，真可恶！”
　　这时，从岩洞里传来一声尖锐的哨声。那是乔治吹的，她听见狗打架的声音，很着急，就对蒂米发出了回来的信号。哨声就是命令，蒂米马上丢下那只狗向悬崖跑去。恰巧这时，斯蒂克一家赶到了。他们抱起那只狗，那正是臭鬼，它被咬得浑身是血，正在呜咽。
　　埃德加拼命地追赶蒂米，一直追到悬崖上。朱利安抢在埃德加出现之前，迅速回到了岩洞里。随后，蒂米也跑到了窟窿那里，不管不顾地跳了下去，差点砸在朱利安身上。它“呼”地一下扑向乔治。
　　“闭嘴，闭嘴！”乔治急切地对那只兴奋的狗低声说，“小傻瓜，你想把我们的藏身之处暴露给别人吗？”
　　埃德加气喘吁吁地来到悬崖顶上，发现蒂米凭空消失了，他简直惊呆了。他找了一会儿，但很明显，他要追的那只狗已经不在悬崖上了。
　　斯蒂克夫妇也赶到了。“那只狗去哪儿了？”斯蒂克太太喊道，“它长什么样？”
　　“它长得很像乔治家的那只可怕的狗。”埃德加说。岩洞里的每个人都能清楚地听到他们的对话，孩子们屏声静气，一点声音都不敢发出来。
　　“不可能！”斯蒂克太太的声音传来，“孩子们都回家去了，我亲眼所见，还有那只狗也朝铁路方向跑去了。刚刚那只一定是只流浪狗，是某个旅客留在这儿的。”
　　“那它去哪儿了？”斯蒂克先生声音沙哑地说，“现在哪儿都看不到它的影子啊。”
　　“它消失在了地里。”埃德加惊恐地说。
　　斯蒂克先生一听，发出粗鲁而轻蔑的声音，“消失在地里！你可真会编瞎话。依我看，它是从悬崖上摔下去了。看看它把可怜的笨笨咬的。我发誓，如果让我看到那只狗，一定开枪打死它！”
　　“在这悬崖附近它可能有个藏身之处，”斯蒂克太太说，“让我们找找看！”
　　孩子们坐在那里一动不动，乔治把手放在蒂米的项圈上以示警告。斯蒂克一家的脚步声离他们越来越近，朱利安担心他们会随时掉到洞里来！
　　但幸运的是，他们并没有发现通往岩洞的那个窟窿。不过，他们在讨论这个问题的时候，就站在离窟窿很近的地方。
　　“如果刚刚那只狗是乔治家的，就证明那些讨厌的孩子一定是来这个岛上了，并没有回家。”斯蒂克太太说，“这会打乱我们的计划！我们必须查清楚这件事，否则我不放心。”
　　“不用担心，我们很快就会查清楚的。”斯蒂克先生说，“如果他们来了这里，那他们的船肯定在岛上的某个地方。四个孩子、一只狗再加上一艘船，在这个小岛上是藏不住的！埃德加，你到那边去找；克拉拉，你去城堡周围找，他们可能藏在废墟的某个地方；我在这周围找。”
　　孩子们蜷缩在岩洞里。他们多么希望他们的船不会被发现啊！
　　他们多么希望没有人能找到他们的踪迹啊！蒂米低声咆哮着，它真希望能再狠狠地咬那只臭鬼一次，咬它耳朵的感觉真是太棒了。
　　埃德加倒是害怕找到孩子们，更害怕在什么地方碰到蒂米。因此，他既没有用心找人，也没有用心找那条船。他来到海湾，虽然他看到拖船的痕迹，但痕迹几乎被涨潮时的海水冲没了，他没有注意到海草掩盖着的船首，而船就隐藏在礁石后面。
　　“我什么也没发现！”他对他妈妈喊道。斯蒂克太太正在废弃的城堡中寻找着，连犄角旮旯都不放过。但她什么也没找到。斯蒂克先生也一无所获。
　　“不可能是乔治家的狗。”斯蒂克先生最后说，“如果那狗在这里，他们的人就会在这里，他们的船自然也会在这里，但这里根本没有他们的踪迹呀。那只狗一定是野狗，我们要当心点，说不定它有狂犬病。”
　　大约又过了一个小时，孩子们才慢慢放松下来，他们认为斯蒂克一家人一定是放弃寻找了。他们烧水泡茶，安妮开始切三明治。
　　蒂米被拴了起来，以防它再出去找臭鬼。
　　他们静静地吃着茶点，小声商量着。“斯蒂克一家人不是来找我们的，”朱利安说，“从他们的对话中，很明显能听出他们认为我们是带着乔治和蒂米赶火车回家了。”
　　“那他们来这儿干什么？”乔治愤怒地问道，“这是我们的岛！他们没有权利到这儿来。我们去把他们赶走！他们最怕蒂米，我们带上它，如果他们不离开，我们就让蒂米去对付他们。”
　　“不行，乔治，”朱利安说，“一定要理智些。你也不希望他们跑去告诉你父亲我们在岛上吧，他会大发雷霆的，并且会立刻赶回来命令我们回家去。对了，我还想到一件事。”
　　“什么事？”其他人异口同声地问道。看到朱利安的眼睛闪烁着光芒，大家就知道他有了主意。
　　朱利安说：“你们不觉得斯蒂克夫妇可能和走私者有关吗？他们到这里来说不定就是为了取走或者隐藏走私品的呢。斯蒂克先生是个水手，他对走私可一清二楚。我敢打赌他们一定参与了走私。”
　　“我相信你的判断是对的！”乔治兴奋地说，“好吧，等斯蒂克一家走后，我们就到地牢里去，看看他们有没有藏什么东西！我们会查清楚他们的活动并阻止他们，这一定非常刺激！”
Chapter Sixteen THE STICKS GET A FRIGHT
Chapter Sixteen THE STICKS GET A FRIGHT
　　BUT the Sticks didn't go! The children peeped out of the spy-hole at the top of the cave-roof everynow and again, and saw one or other of the Sticks. The evening went on and it began to be dark. Stillthe Sticks didn't go. Julian ran down to the nearby shore and discovered a small boat there. So theSticks had managed to find their way round the island, rowed near the wreck, maybe landed on it too,and then come to the shore, cleverly avoiding the rocks they might strike against.
　　"It looks as if the Sticks have come to stay for the night," said Julian, gloomily. "This is going tospoil our stay here, isn't it? We rush away here to escape from the Sticks - and lo and behold! theSticks are on top of us again. It's too bad.""Let's frighten them," said George, her eyes shining by the light of the one candle in the cave.
　　"What do you mean?" said Dick, cheering up. He always liked George's ideas, mad as theysometimes were.
　　"Well, I suppose they must be living down in one of the dungeon rooms, mustn't they?" said George.
　　"There is no place in the ruins to live in proper shelter, or we'd be there ourselves - and the only otherplace is down in the dungeons. I wouldn't care to sleep there myself, but I don't suppose the Stickswould mind."
　　"Well, what about it?" said Dick. "What's your idea?""Couldn't we creep down, and do a bit of shouting, so that the echoes start up all round?" saidGeorge. "You know how frightening we found the echoes when we first went down into the 73dungeons. We only had to say one or two words, and the echoes began saying them over and overagain shouting them back at us."
　　"Oh yes, I remember," said Anne. "And wasn't Timmy frightened when he barked! The echoesbarked back at him, and he thought there were thousands of dogs hiding down there! He was awfullyfrightened."
　　"It's a good idea," said Julian. "Serve the Sticks right for coming to our island like this! If we canfrighten them away, that would be one up to us! Let's do it.""What about Timothy?" said Anne. "Hadn't we better leave him behind?""No. He can come and stand at the dungeon entrance to guard it for us," said George. "Then if any ofthe real smugglers happened to come, Timmy could give us warning. I'm not going to leave himbehind."
　　"Come on, then, let's go now!" said Julian. "It would be a fine trick to play. It's quite dark, but I've gotmy torch, and as soon as we are certain that the Sticks are down in the dungeons, we can start to playour joke."
　　There was no sign or sound of the Sticks anywhere about. No light of fire or candle was to be seen,no sound of voices to be heard. Either they had gone, or they were below in the dungeons.
　　The stones had been taken from the entrance, so the children felt sure they were down there.
　　"Now Timmy, you stay quite still and quiet here," whispered George to Timmy. "Bark if anyonecomes, but not unless. We're going down into the dungeons.""I think perhaps I'll stay up here with Timothy," said Anne, suddenly. She didn't like the dark look ofthe dungeon entrance. "You see, George - Timmy might be frightened or lonely up here by himself."The others chuckled. They knew Anne was frightened. Julian squeezed her arm. "You stay here,then," he said, kindly. "You keep old Timmy company."Then Julian, George and Dick went down the long flight of steps that led into the deep old dungeonsof Kirrin Castle. They had been there the summer before, when they had been seeking for losttreasure; now here they were again!
　　They crept down the steps and came to the many cellars or dungeons cut out of the rock below thecastle. There were scores of those, some big and some small, queer, damp underground rooms inwhich, maybe, unhappy prisoners had been kept in the olden days.
　　74
　　The children crept down the dark passages. Julian had a piece of white chalk with him, and drew achalk-line here and there on the rocky walls as he went, so that he might easily find the way back.
　　Suddenly they heard voices and saw a light. They stopped and whispered softly together in eachother's ears.
　　"They're in that room where we found the treasure last year! That's where they're camping out!
　　What noises shall we make?"
　　"I'll be a cow," said Dick. "I can moo awfully like a cow. I'll be a cow.""I'll be a sheep," said Julian. "George, you be a horse. You can whinny and hrrrumph just like ahorse. Dick, you begin!"
　　So Dick began. Hidden behind a rocky pillar, he opened his mouth and mooed dolefully, like a cowin pain. At once the echoes took up the mooing, magnified it, sent it along all the undergroundpassages, till it seemed as if a thousand cows had wandered there and were mooing together.
　　"Moo - oo - oo - OOOOOOOO, ooo - oo - MOOOOOOO!"The Sticks listened in amazement and fright at the sudden awful noise.
　　"What is it, Ma?" said Edgar, almost in tears. Stinker crouched at the back of the cave, terrified.
　　"It's cows," said Mr. Stick, amazed. "Them there's cows. Can't you hear the moos? But how did cowsget to be here?"
　　"Nonsense!" said Mrs. Stick, recovering herself a little. "Cows down these caves! You're mad!
　　You'll be telling me there're sheep next!"It was funny that she should have said that, for Julian chose that moment to begin baa-ing like a flockof sheep. His one long, bleating "baa-baa-aa-aa" was taken up by the echoes at once, and it seemedsuddenly as if hundreds of poor lost sheep were baa-ing their way down the dungeons!
　　Mr. Stick jumped to his feet, as white as a sheet.
　　"Well, if it isn't sheep now!" he said. "What's up? What's in these 'ere dungeons? I never did likethem."
　　"Baa-baa-baa-aa-AAAAAAAAAA!' went the mournful bleats all round and about. And then Georgestarted her whinnying and neighing, just like an impatient horse. The little girl tossed her head in thedarkness and hrrrumphed exactly like a horse and then she stamped with her foot, and 75at once the echoes stamped too, sending the whinnying and neighing and stamping into Sticks'
　　cave twenty times louder than George had made them.
　　Poor Stinker began to whine pitifully. He was frightened almost out of his life. He pressed himselfagainst the floor as if he would like to disappear into it. Edgar clutched his mother's arm.
　　"Let's go up," he said. "I can't stay here. There's hundreds of sheep and horses and cows roamingthese dungeons, you can hear them. They're not real, but they've got voices and hoofs, and I'm scaredof them."
　　Mr. Stick went to the door of the room they were in, and shouted loudly.
　　"Get out, you! Clear out! Whoever you are!"George giggled. Then she shouted out in a very deep, hoarse voice.
　　"BE-WARE!" And the echoes thundered out all round.
　　"WARE! 'WARE! "WARE-ARE-ARE!"
　　Mr. Stick went back quickly into the cave-room, and lit another candle. He shut the big wooden doorthat led into the room. His hands were shaking.
　　"Queer goings-on," he said. "Shan't stay here much longer if we get this kind of thing happeningevery night."
　　Julian, Dick and George were now in such a state of giggles that they could not imitate any morecows, horses or sheep. George did begin to be a pig, and gave such a realistic snort and grunt thatDick nearly died of laughing. The snorts and grunts were echoed everywhere.
　　"Come out" gasped Julian, at last. "I shall burst with trying not to laugh. Come out!""Come out!" whispered the echoes. "Come out, out, out!"They stumbled out, stuffing hankies into their mouths as they went, following Julian's chalk-markseasily by the light of his torch. It was impossible to take the wrong passage if they followed hisguiding-lines.
　　They sat on the dungeon steps with Anne and Timmy, and choked with laughter as they related allthey had done. "We heard old Stick yelling to us to clear out," said George, "and he sounded scaredstiff. As for Stinker, we never heard even the smallest growl from him. I bet the Sticks will clear offtomorrow after this! It must have given them a most terrible fright.""Oh, that was grand!" said Julian. "It was a pity I began to laugh. I was just feeling I might trumpetlike an elephant next. The echoes would like that!"76
　　"Funny the Sticks all staying on the island like this," said Dick, thoughtfully. "They've left KirrinCottage - but they're not looking for us. They must be in league with the smugglers all right.
　　Perhaps that's why Mrs. Stick took the job with your mother, George - to be near the island when thetime came - when the smugglers wanted their help.""We could really go back to Kirrin Cottage, couldn't we?" said Anne, who, much as she loved theisland, was not nearly so keen on it now that the Sticks were there.
　　"Go back! Leave an adventure just when it's beginning!" said George, scornfully. "How silly you are,Anne. Go back if you want to - but I'm sure nobody will go with you.""Oh, Anne will stay with us all right," said Julian, knowing that Anne would feel hurt at thesuggestion she should leave them. "It will be the Sticks who have to go, don't worry!""Let's go back to the cave," said Anne, thinking longingly of its safety and bright little candle.
　　They got up and made their way across the courtyard to the little wall that ran round the castle.
　　They climbed over it and turned their steps to the cliff. Julian switched on his torch when he thoughtit was safe, for it was impossible to see clearly in the dark, and he did not want any of them to falldown the hole, instead of climbing down properly by the rope.
　　Julian stood by the hole at last, shining his torch so that the others might climb down the rope insafety, one by one. He glanced up, looking over the dark sea, as he stood there, and then staredintently.
　　There was a light out to sea, and it was signalling. It must have seen his torchlight! Julian watched,wondering if it was a ship that was signalling, and how far out it was, and why it was signalling.
　　"Perhaps they're going to put more stuff into the old wreck for the Sticks to find," he thought. "Iwonder if they are. How I'd like to find out - but it would be dangerous to go there in daylight in casethe Sticks see us."
　　The signalling went on for a long time, as if a message was being flashed. Julian could not for the lifeof him make out what it was. It simply looked like the flash-flash-flash of a lantern to him. But itmust mean a signal or message of some sort to the Sticks.
　　"Well, they won't get it tonight!" thought Julian, with a chuckle, when at last the signalling stopped.
　　"I rather think the Stick family will stay where they are tonight, too scared of sheep and cows andhorses rushing about in those dungeons!"
　　77
　　Julian was quite right - the Sticks did stay where they were! Nothing would get them out of theirunderground room till morning.
16.斯蒂克一家受到了惊吓
　　斯蒂克一家受到了惊吓
　　斯蒂克一家没有离开地牢！孩子们不时从洞顶的窟窿里探出头来察看，总能看见他们中的一两个人在外面。天开始黑下来，但斯蒂克一家还是没走。朱利安跑到附近的岸边，在那里发现了一只小船。原来斯蒂克一家是巧妙地避开了暗礁登上的沉船，然后又到了岸上。
　　“看来斯蒂克一家要在这里过夜了，”朱利安沮丧地说，“我们的好心情都被他们给破坏了。本来跑到这里就是为了躲开他们一家的，可是你瞧，他们也跟来了。真倒霉！”
　　“那我们就吓唬吓唬他们。”乔治说。她的眼睛在蜡烛的映照下闪闪发光。
　　“你有什么打算？”迪克兴奋地问。乔治的想法总是能给他带来惊喜，尽管有时也很疯狂。
　　“他们一定是住在地牢里，对吧？”乔治说，“因为废弃的城堡里没有可以住人的地方，唯一能住的地方就是地牢。虽然我们不想睡在那儿，但我想斯蒂克一家不会介意。”
　　“那又怎么样？”迪克问道。
　　“我们可以悄悄摸到地牢口，然后大喊一声，让周围响起重重的回声。”乔治说，“你们还记得我们第一次下地牢时的可怕情形吧，我们只说了一两句话，回声就开始一遍又一遍地重复响起。”
　　“是的，我记得。”安妮说，“还有蒂米，它只叫了几声，回声就开始对着它不停地吠叫，它还以为地牢里有成千上万只狗哩，把它给吓坏了。”
　　“这的确是个好主意。”朱利安说，“对于私自闯到我们岛上来的人，这是罪有应得，吓跑他们就是胜利！咱们就这么干吧。”
　　“那蒂米怎么办？”安妮说，“我们让它一起去吧？”
　　“我们当然不能把蒂米丢在这儿。到时候让它站在地牢口为我们放哨。”乔治说，“如果有走私者来了，蒂米可以给我们报信。”
　　“那好，我们出发吧！”朱利安说，“天太黑了，我得带上手电筒。只要确定斯蒂克一家在地牢里，我们就可以上演恶作剧了。”
　　城堡周围没有斯蒂克一家人的踪影。那里没有火光，也没有人声。看情形他们不是走了，就是在下面的地牢里。很快，孩子们发现地牢入口的石头已被人移走，于是他们确信斯蒂克一家就在下面。
　　“蒂米，我们要去地牢，你在这儿安静地待着。”乔治小声对蒂米说，“如果有人来了你就大声叫，没来人绝对不许叫。”
　　“我还是和蒂米待在一起吧，”安妮突然说。她不喜欢黑森森的地牢，“因为蒂米独自待在这儿可能会感到害怕。”
　　其他人都笑了，他们知道安妮其实是自己害怕了。朱利安拍了拍她的肩膀，“那你就待在这儿跟蒂米做伴吧。”他温柔地说。
　　随后朱利安、乔治和迪克走下那长长的阶梯，进入科林城堡古老的地牢。前年夏天，他们在寻宝时到过这里，现在他们又来了！
　　一行人蹑手蹑脚地走下台阶，来到城堡下面的地牢中。这里有许多大大小小、奇形怪状的房间，里面很潮湿，毕竟曾经是用来羁押囚犯的地方。
　　孩子们走下黑暗的走廊。朱利安带着一根白粉笔，一边走，一边在石壁上画道道儿，这样等他们离开的时候就不会迷路了。
　　突然，他们听到了说话的声音，还看见了灯光。于是大家停下脚步，开始在彼此的耳边窃窃私语。
　　“他们在去年我们发现宝藏的那个房间里，原来那儿就是他们要睡觉的地方！我们要发出什么声音呢？”
　　“我学牛叫，”迪克说，“我可以像牛一样哞哞叫。”
　　“我学羊叫，”朱利安说，“乔治，你来学马叫，你可以像马一样咴咴叫。迪克，先从你开始吧！”
　　迪克开始了。他躲在一根石柱后面，张大嘴巴，“哞哞”地大叫起来，就像一头痛苦的母牛发出的哀鸣。回声立刻传开了，传遍了地牢里的各个通道，就好像有一千头牛在那里游荡，一起哞哞叫。
　　“哞——哞哞哞——哞哞……”
　　斯蒂克一家听到突如其来的可怕声音，顿时被吓坏了。
　　“妈妈，这是什么声音？”埃德加带着哭腔问。臭鬼也吓坏了，缩在房间最里面，不敢动弹。
　　“是奶牛，”斯蒂克先生惊讶地说，“你没听见‘哞哞’的叫声吗？
　　可这里哪来的奶牛呢？”
　　“胡说八道！”斯蒂克太太稍稍镇定下来，说道，“牛怎么会到地牢里来呢？你疯了吧？接下来你是不是要说听见绵羊叫了呢？”
　　有趣的是，恰在这时，朱利安开始学着绵羊“咩咩”地叫起来。
　　他那长长的、悲切的“咩咩”叫声立刻变成了回声传到地牢深处，突然间好像有几百只可怜的迷路羔羊在地牢里四处乱窜！
　　斯蒂克先生跳了起来，脸色煞白。
　　“你听，这不是羊在叫吗？”他说，“为什么会这样呢？地牢里到底有什么古怪的东西啊？”
　　“咴咴咴……”悲伤的马叫声开始在四周回荡。乔治的嘶鸣声就像一匹不耐烦的马，她边叫还边跺脚，于是回声里除了嘶鸣声还有马蹄声。而嘶鸣声和马蹄声传到斯蒂克一家住的那个房间后，比乔治发出的声音大了恐怕有二十倍。
　　可怜的臭鬼开始呜咽起来。它被吓得魂飞魄散，身体紧紧贴在地板上，好像要钻进地板里去。埃德加抓住他妈妈的胳膊说：“我们上去吧，我不想待在这儿了。你听这些叫声，就像有几百只羊、马和牛在地牢里游荡。我知道它们不是真的，但它们发出的叫声实在是太可怕了。”
　　斯蒂克先生走到房间门口，大声喊道：“出来！滚出来！你到底是谁？”
　　乔治咯咯笑了，然后她用低沉沙哑的声音大声喊道：“小心！”
　　回声立刻像炸雷一样在四周响起：“小心！小心！小心！……”
　　斯蒂克先生急忙回到房间，又点燃了一支蜡烛，然后关上了房间的大木门。他的手抖得厉害。
　　“太不可思议了，”他说，“如果每天晚上都发生这种事情的话，我们可不能在这里久留。”
　　朱利安、迪克和乔治拼命地忍着笑，再也无法模仿出牛、马或羊的声音了。乔治的声音已经变成了“哼哼”声，就像一头猪在叫唤，还发出了一种带着鼻音的咕哝声，迪克差点笑死，因为到处都是哼唧哼唧的声音。
　　“我们出去吧！”朱利安终于喘了口气低声说，“我忍不住要笑出声来了。走，出去！”
　　“出去！”回声低声说，“出去，去，去……”
　　他们跌跌撞撞地往外走，边走边往嘴里塞手帕，免得笑出声。
　　借助手电筒的光，他们可以清楚地看到朱利安留下的粉笔记号，顺利地找到了出口。
　　他们和安妮、蒂米一起坐在地牢的台阶上，说着他们的恶作剧，笑得前仰后合。
　　乔治说：“斯蒂克先生朝我们喊着让我们滚出来，一听他那颤抖的声音，我就知道他害怕极了。至于臭鬼，我们甚至都没有听到它的叫声。我敢打赌，斯蒂克一家明天就会滚蛋！他们肯定被吓坏了。”
　　“太成功了！”朱利安说，“遗憾的是，后来我实在憋不住笑了。
　　本来接下来我就要学大象叫的，那回声更大！”
　　“不过，斯蒂克一家为什么要到岛上来呢？”迪克若有所思地说，“他们离开了科林庄园，又不是来找我们的，那就一定和走私者有关。乔治，也许这就是斯蒂克太太接替乔安娜的原因，当走私犯需要帮助的时候，他们随时可以在小岛附近接应。”
　　“我们可以回到科林庄园了吧？”安妮说，尽管她很喜欢这个岛，但现在既然斯蒂克一家来了，她就没那么喜欢了。
　　“回去？！冒险才刚刚开始，你就想离开？”乔治轻蔑地说，“安妮，你胆子也太小了。如果你想回去就自己回去，但我相信没人会和你一起回去。”
　　“乔治，别这么说，安妮才不会走呢。”朱利安说，他知道安妮听到让她离开会伤心的，“要走的是斯蒂克一家。”
　　“我们回洞里去吧。”安妮说，她渴望待在洞里，渴望着那支明亮的小蜡烛带来的安全感。他们站了起来，穿过院子，翻过围绕着城堡的矮墙，转身向悬崖走去。为了安全起见，朱利安打开了手电筒，因为天太黑了，他可不想有人从窟窿里掉下去，还是顺着绳子爬下去的好。
　　朱利安站在窟窿旁，用手电筒为其他人照亮，以便他们安全地爬下去。他无意中抬头朝漆黑的大海望去，突然，他的目光定住了。
　　海上有一盏灯，正在发出信号——一定是为了呼应他手电筒的灯光！朱利安注视着那里，想知道发信号的是不是一艘船，离这儿有多远，为什么要发信号。
　　“也许他们想把更多东西藏进沉船里，通知让斯蒂克一家去取。”他想，“我一定得查个明白。不过，白天去那里太危险了，斯蒂克一家会发现我们的。”
　　信号持续了很长时间，好像在传递信息，朱利安无论如何也弄不明白那是什么意思。对他来说，那不过是一盏闪闪发光的灯而已。但对斯蒂克一家来说，那一定意味着某种信息。
　　“今晚斯蒂克一家可顾不上去取了。”朱利安暗自笑着想，这时信号终于停住了，“他们一定会待在原地不敢动弹，因为地牢里跑来跑去的羊啊、牛啊、马啊把他们吓坏了！”
　　朱利安想得没错——此时，斯蒂克一家确实待在地牢里！天不亮，他们是没胆量走出地牢的。
Chapter Seventeen A SHOCK FOR EDGAR
Chapter Seventeen A SHOCK FOR EDGAR
　　THE children slept well that night, and as Timothy did not growl at all, they were sure that nothingimportant could have happened. They had a fine breakfast of tongue, tinned peaches, bread andbutter, golden syrup and ginger-beer.
　　"That's the end of the ginger-beer, I'm afraid," said Julian, regretfully. "I must say ginger-beer is agorgeous drink - seems to go with simply everything.""That was the nicest meal I've ever had," said Anne. "It really was. We do have lovely meals onKirrin Island. I wonder if the Sticks are having nice meals too.""You bet they are!" said Dick. "I expect they have ransacked Aunt Fanny's cupboards and taken thebest they can find."
　　"Oh, the beasts!" said George, her eyes flashing. "I never thought of that - they may have robbed thehouse and taken all kinds of things."
　　"They probably have," said Julian, and he frowned. "I say, I never thought of that, somehow.
　　How awful, George, if your mother came back, feeling ill and weak, and found half her belongingsgone!"
　　"Oh dear!" said Anne, dismayed. "George, wouldn't that be dreadful?""Yes," said George, looking very angry. "I would believe anything of those Sticks! If they have thecheek to come to our island and live here, they've the cheek to steal from my mother's house.
　　I wish we could find out."
　　They could have brought quite a lot of things away in their boat," said Julian. "They must have comehere by boat. If they did bring stolen goods, they must have put them somewhere - down in thedungeons, I suppose."
　　"We might have a look round and see if we can spy anything, without the Sticks seeing us,"suggested Dick.
　　78
　　"Let's have a look round now," said George, who always liked doing things at once. "Anne, you dothe washing up and tidy our cave-house for us, will you?"Anne was torn between wanting to go with the others, and longing to play "house" again. She did solove arranging everything and making the beds and tidying up the cave. In the end she said she wouldstay and the others could go.
　　So up the rope they went. Timothy stayed with Anne, because they were afraid he might bark.
　　Anne tied him up, and he whined a little, but did not make a terrible noise.
　　The other three lay flat on the cliff-top, looking down on the ruined castle. There seemed to be no oneabout, but, even as they watched, the three Sticks appeared, apparently coming up from thedungeons. They seemed glad to be in the sunshine, and the children were not surprised, for thedungeons were so cold and dark.
　　The Sticks looked all round. Stinker kept close to Mrs. Stick, his tail well down.
　　"They're looking for the cows and sheep and horses they heard down in the dungeons last night!"whispered Dick to Julian.
　　The Sticks spoke together for a minute or two, and then went off in the direction of the shore thatfaced the wreck. Edgar went to the room in which the children had first planned to sleep - the onewhose roof had fallen in.
　　"I'm going to stalk the two Sticks," whispered Julian to the others. "You two see what Edgar is up to."Julian disappeared, keeping behind bushes as he watched where the Sticks went, and followed them.
　　George and Dick went cautiously and quietly over the cliff to the castle in the middle of the littleisland. They could hear Edgar whistling. Stinker was running about the courtyard of the castle.
　　Edgar appeared out of the ruined room, carrying a pile of cushions, which had evidently been storedthere. George went red with rage and clutched Dick's arm fiercely.
　　"Mother's best cushions!" she whispered. "Oh, the beasts!"Dick felt angry too. It was quite plain that the Sticks had helped themselves to anything handy whenthey had left Kirrin Cottage. He picked up a clod of earth, took careful aim, and flung it into the air. Itfell between Edgar and Stinker, breaking into a shower of earth.
　　Edgar dropped the cushions, and looked up into the air in fright. It was plain that he thoughtsomething had fallen from the sky. George picked up another clod, took aim, and flung it high 79into the air. It fell all over Stinker, and the dog gave a yelp, and scuttled down the hole that led intothe dungeons.
　　Edgar looked up into the sky and then all round and about him, his mouth wide open. What could behappening? Dick waited until he was looking in the opposite direction, and then once more sent a bigclod into the air. It fell into bits and scattered itself all over the startled Edgar.
　　Then Dick gave one of his realistic moos, exactly like a cow in pain, and Edgar stood rooted to thespot, almost frightened out of his skin. Those cows again! Where were they?
　　Dick mooed again, and Edgar gave a yell, found his feet, and almost fell down the dungeon steps. Hedisappeared with a dismal howl, leaving behind all the cushions on the ground.
　　"Quick!" said Dick, jumping to his feet. "He won't be back for a few minutes, anyhow. He'll be tooscared. Let's grab the cushions and bring them here. I don't see why the Sticks should use them downin those awful old dungeons."
　　The two children raced to the courtyard, picked up the cushions and raced back to their hiding-place.
　　Dick looked across to the room where Edgar had brought them from.
　　"What about slipping across there and seeing what else they've stored away?" he said. "I don't seewhy they should be allowed to have anything that isn't theirs.""I'll go across, and you keep watch by the dungeon entrance," said George. "You've only got to mooagain if you see Edgar, and he'll run for miles.""Right," said Dick, with a grin, and went swiftly to the flight of steps that led underground to thedungeons. There was no sign of Edgar at all, nor of Stinker.
　　George went to the ruined room and gazed round in anger. Yes, the Sticks certainly had helpedthemselves to her mother's things, no doubt about that! There were blankets and silver and all kindsof food. Mrs. Stick must have gone into the big cupboard under the stairs and taken out variousthings stored there for weekly use.
　　George ran to Dick. "There are heaps of our things!" she said, in a fierce whisper. "Come and helpme to get them. We'll see if we can take them all before Edgar appears, or the Sticks come back."Just as they were whispering together, they heard a low whistle. They looked round, and saw Juliancoming along. He joined them.
　　80
　　"The Sticks have rowed off to the wreck," he said. "They've got an old boat somewhere down amongthose rocks. Old Pa Stick must be a good sailor to be able to take the boat in and out of those awfulhidden rocks."
　　"Oh, then we've got time to do what we want to do," said Dick, pleased. He hurriedly told Julian ofthe things George had seen in the ruined room.
　　"Awful thieves!" said Julian, indignantly. "They don't mean to go back to Kirrin Cottage, that's plain.
　　They've got some business on with the smugglers here - and when that is done they'll go off with alltheir stolen goods, join a ship somewhere, and get off scot-free.""No, they won't," said George at once. "We are going to get everything and take it to the cave!
　　Dick's going to keep watch for Edgar at the cave entrance, and you and I, Julian, can quickly carrythe things away. We can drop them down the hole into the cave.""Hurry then!" said Julian. "We must do it before the Sticks return, and I don't expect they'll be long.
　　They've probably gone to fetch the trunk and anything else in the wreck. You know I saw a light outto sea last night - maybe that's a signal that the smugglers were leaving something in the wreck forthe Sticks to fetch."
　　George and Julian ran to the ruined room, piled their arms with the goods there, and then ran to hidethem on the cliff, ready to take them to the hole when they had time. It looked as if the Sticks had justtaken whatever was easiest to lay their hands on. They had even got the kitchen clock!
　　Edgar did not appear at all, so Dick had nothing to do but sit by the steps of the dungeon and watchthe others. After some time Julian and George gave a sigh of relief and beckoned to Dick.
　　He left his place and went to join them.
　　"We've got everything now," said Julian. "I'm just going to the cliff-edge to see if the Sticks arereturning yet. If they're not we'll all carry the things to the hole in the roof of the cave."He soon returned. "I can see their boat tied to the wreck," he said. "We're safe for some while yet.
　　Come on, let's get the things to safety! This really is a bit of luck."They carried the things to the hole and called down it to Anne. "Anne! We've got tons of things to putdown the hole. Stand by to catch!"
　　Soon all kinds of things came down the hole into the cave! Anne was most astonished. The silver andanything that might be hurt by a fall was first wrapped up in the blankets, and then let down by arope.
　　81
　　"My goodness!" said Anne. "This cave will really look like a house soon, when I have arranged allthese things too!"
　　Just as they were finishing their job the children heard voices in the distance.
　　"The Sticks are back!" said Julian, and looked cautiously over the cliff-top. He was right. They hadreturned to their boat, and were even now on their way back to the castle, carrying the trunk from thewreck.
　　"Let's follow them, and see what happens when they find everything gone," grinned Julian.
　　"Come on, everyone!"
　　They wriggled over the cliff on their tummies, and came to a clump of bushes behind which theycould hide and watch. The Sticks put the trunk down, and looked round for Edgar. But Edgar wasnowhere to be seen.
　　"Where's that boy?" said Mrs. Stick, impatiently. "He's had plenty of time to do everything.
　　Edgar! Edgar! Edgar!"
　　Mr. Stick went to the ruined room and peeped inside. He came back to Mrs. Stick.
　　"He's taken everything down," he said. "He must be down in the dungeon. That room's quite empty.""I told him to come up and sit in the sun when he'd finished," said Mrs. Stick. "It isn't healthy downin them dungeons. EDGAR!"
　　This time Edgar heard, and his head appeared, looking out of the entrance to the dungeon. He lookedextremely scared.
　　"Come on up!" said Mrs. Stick. "You've got all the things down, and you'd better stay up here in thesunshine now."
　　"I'm scared," said Edgar. "I'm not staying up here alone.""Why not?" said Mr. Stick, astonished.
　　"It's those cows again!" said poor Edgar. "Hundreds of them, Pa, all a- mooing round me, andthrowing things at me. They're dangerous animals, they are, and I'm not coming up here alone!"
17.埃德加魂飞魄散
　　埃德加魂飞魄散
　　那天晚上，孩子们睡得很踏实，因为蒂米一声也没叫。早上的时候，他们吃了一顿丰盛的早餐，有桃子罐头、面包、黄油、金黄色的糖浆和姜汁汽水。
　　“我们带来的姜汁汽水快喝完了。”朱利安遗憾地说，“它真是一种非常棒的饮料，似乎和什么食物都很搭。”
　　“这是我吃过的最好的一顿早餐，”安妮说，“真的，我们在科林岛上吃得可比在科林庄园好多了。不知道斯蒂克一家是否也有这么美味的饭菜。”
　　“肯定有！”迪克说，“估计他们已经搜遍了范妮婶婶的橱柜，把好东西都带来了。”
　　“一家子坏蛋！”乔治说，眼里闪现出愤怒的光芒，“他们可能把我家洗劫一空，拿走了所有东西。”
　　“有可能。”朱利安说着，皱起了眉头，“乔治，如果你妈妈回来了，本来身体就很虚弱，又发现家里的东西有一半都不见了，那该多糟糕啊！”
　　“天哪！”安妮沮丧地说，“乔治，想想就觉得很可怕。”
　　“说得是，”乔治气愤地说，“斯蒂克一家什么事都做得出来！现在他们敢到我们的岛上来，就敢从我家里偷东西，希望我们能查出他们来这儿的真正目的。”
　　“他们一定是坐船来的，所以能用船带走很多东西。”朱利安说，“如果他们确实参与走私，收了赃物，那一定是把东西放在地牢里的什么地方了。”
　　“我们可以四处找找，看能不能发现什么蛛丝马迹，但不能让斯蒂克一家看到。”迪克建议道。
　　“我们马上去找，”乔治说，她做事总是那么雷厉风行，“安妮，你帮我们洗碗，打扫我们的岩洞，好吗？”
　　安妮既想和其他人一起去，又想在岩洞屋子里玩一次“过家家”，因为她非常喜欢把东西规整得井井有条，比如整理床铺和石台什么的。最后她说她愿意留下来。
　　于是，其他人顺着绳子爬了上去。蒂米留下和安妮待在一起，因为他们担心它会叫起来，暴露他们的行踪。安妮把蒂米拴了起来，它低声抱怨着，但并没有发出可怕的叫声。
　　另外三个人趴在悬崖顶上，俯视着废弃的城堡，周围看起来没有人。但就在这时，斯蒂克一家出现了，他们显然是从地牢里出来的。来到阳光下他们看起来很高兴，这也不奇怪，因为地牢里又黑又冷。
　　斯蒂克一家四下张望着。臭鬼耷拉着尾巴，紧贴着斯蒂克太太。
　　“他们在找昨晚地牢里听到的牛、羊和马！”迪克小声对朱利安说。
　　斯蒂克夫妇和埃德加说了几句话，然后就朝沉船对面的海岸走去。埃德加则走到孩子们原来打算住的那个屋顶塌下来的房间。
　　“我去跟踪斯蒂克夫妇，”朱利安小声对其他人说，“你们俩去看看埃德加在搞什么鬼。”
　　借助灌木丛的掩护，朱利安盯着斯蒂克夫妇离去的方向，悄悄跟在他们后面。乔治和迪克小心翼翼地沿着悬崖，来到小岛中央的城堡。他们听到埃德加在吹口哨，臭鬼则在城堡的院子里跑来跑去。
　　埃德加拿着一堆靠垫从那间破屋子里走出来。乔治气得满脸通红，用力抓住迪克的胳膊。
　　“真是浑蛋！”她低声说，“那是妈妈最好的靠垫！”
　　迪克也很气愤。很明显，斯蒂克一家擅自把科林庄园能带的东西都带来了。他捡起一个土块，仔细瞄准，扔了过去，土块落在埃德加和臭鬼中间，砸出一些尘土。
　　埃德加放下靠垫，惊恐地抬头望向天空，他以为有什么东西从天而降了呢。乔治又捡起一个土块，瞄准，扔了过去。没想到刚好砸中了臭鬼，它哀叫了一声，飞快地跑进了地牢。
　　埃德加抬头看看天，又四处张望，张大了嘴巴不知道发生了什么事。等到他转过身去的时候，迪克又把一个大土块抛向空中，土块在空中碎成粉末状，散落在惊恐万状的埃德加身上。
　　接着，迪克又学起了逼真的“哞哞”声，活像一头痛苦的母牛。
　　埃德加站在原地一动不动，吓得浑身发抖。又是牛！它们在哪里？
　　迪克又叫了一声，埃德加尖叫着起身就跑，差点从地牢的台阶上摔下去。他凄惨地号叫一声就消失了，只留下地上的靠垫。
　　“快！”迪克一边说着，一边站起来，“他被吓着了，一时半会儿都不会回来。走，咱们把垫子拿过来。我不明白斯蒂克一家为什么会把靠垫拿进可怕的地牢里用。”
　　两个孩子跑到院子里，捡起靠垫，再跑回他们藏身的地方。迪克朝埃德加拿靠垫的那个房间望去。
　　“我得溜过去看看他们还藏了些什么，”他说，“他们不应该拥有任何不属于他们的东西。”
　　“我过去，你守在地牢入口。”乔治说，“只要一见到埃德加出来，你就‘哞哞’叫，他听到叫声就又会跑掉的。”
　　“对。”迪克咧嘴笑着说，跑到通往地牢的台阶口。那里根本没有埃德加和臭鬼的影子。
　　乔治走到那间破屋子里，怒气冲冲地四下查看。显然，斯蒂克一家拿了很多她们家的东西，毫无疑问！有毯子、银器和各种各样的食物。斯蒂克太太一定是找遍了楼梯下面的橱柜，几乎把放在那里的东西都拿来了——那些东西是乔治一家一周的食物。
　　乔治跑向迪克，“他们从我家偷拿了很多东西！”她低声说，“快过来帮我一把，我们争取在埃德加或者斯蒂克夫妇出现之前把东西都拿走。”
　　正当他们窃窃私语时，突然听到一声低低的口哨声。他们环顾四周，看到朱利安正朝这边走来，准备加入他们的行列。
　　“斯蒂克夫妇已经划船到沉船上去了，”他说，“在那些礁石中，他们藏了一条旧船。斯蒂克先生一定是个好水手，他能把船从那些可怕的暗礁里安然无恙地划出来。”
　　“太好了，这下我们就有时间做我们想做的事了。”迪克高兴地说，他把乔治在废弃的房间中看到的情况匆匆告诉了朱利安。
　　“该死的贼！”朱利安愤怒地说，“很明显，他们就没打算再回科林庄园。他们和这里的走私者有生意往来，等生意完成后，他们就会带着所有的赃物离开，然后逍遥法外。”
　　“他们不会得逞的。”乔治立刻说道，“我们快把所有的东西都拿到岩洞里去！迪克在洞口把风，以防埃德加出来，咱俩来搬东西。
　　我们可以把东西从窟窿那儿扔进洞里。”
　　“快点！”朱利安说，“我们必须在斯蒂克夫妇回来之前完成，他们可能是去取箱子和沉船里的其他东西了，应该很快就会弄完。我昨晚看见海上有灯光，也许那是走私者的信号，他们可能在沉船里留下了什么东西，让斯蒂克夫妇去取。”
　　乔治和朱利安跑到废弃的房间里，搬起东西就走，然后把东西藏在悬崖上，准备在方便的时候顺着窟窿扔进岩洞。看起来，斯蒂克一家偷拿了他们能带走的所有东西，甚至是厨房的挂钟！
　　埃德加根本没有露面，所以迪克除了坐在地牢口的台阶旁看他们俩忙活以外，没别的事可做。过了一会儿，朱利安和乔治搬完了所有的东西，向迪克招手让他过去。
　　“都拿完了，我们现在该有的东西都有了。”朱利安说，“我去悬崖边看看斯蒂克一家回来没有。如果没有，我们就把东西搬到洞顶的窟窿那儿去。”
　　朱利安很快就回来了。“咱们运气真不错！我看到他们的船拴在沉船上，”他说，“这说明我们暂时很安全。快点，咱们把东西运到安全的地方去！”
　　三人合力把东西搬到窟窿那里，对下面的安妮喊道：“安妮！我们有很多东西要扔进洞里。你当心点！”
　　很快，各种各样的东西从窟窿那儿顺了下来！安妮吃惊地看着这一切。他们把银器和容易摔坏的东西先用毯子裹起来，再慢慢顺下来，然后安妮松开绳子，把它们摆好。
　　“我的天哪！”安妮说，“等我把这些东西都安排好，这个岩洞可真像个家了！”
　　就在他们刚刚完工的时候，远处传来了说话声。
　　“斯蒂克夫妇回来了！”朱利安说着，小心翼翼地从悬崖顶上观察外面的情况。他说得没错，斯蒂克夫妇已经回到了船上，正准备返回城堡，看样子他们取回了沉船上的箱子。
　　“咱们跟过去，看看他们发现所有东西都不见了的时候会是什么表情。”朱利安咧嘴笑着说。
　　他们匍匐着爬向灌木丛，躲在后面偷偷观察。斯蒂克夫妇把箱子放下，就开始四处寻找埃德加，却不见儿子的踪影。
　　“这孩子去哪儿了？”斯蒂克太太不耐烦地说，“他有足够的时间收拾好所有的东西。埃德加！埃德加！”
　　斯蒂克先生走到那间破屋子门口往里看，然后回到斯蒂克太太旁边。“他把那个房间里的所有东西都搬下去了，”他说，“现在他一定是在地牢里。”
　　“我告诉过他搬完东西后就上来晒太阳，”斯蒂克太太说，“总待在地牢里对身体不好。埃德加！”
　　这一次埃德加听见了，他从地牢的入口处探出头来，看起来依旧惊魂未定。
　　“过来！”斯蒂克太太说，“既然所有的东西都搬完了，就该待在这儿晒晒太阳。”
　　埃德加说：“我好害怕。这里不只有我一个人。”
　　“怎么回事？”斯蒂克先生惊讶地问道。
　　“那些牛又出现了！”可怜的埃德加说，“爸爸，有好几百头呢，全都围着我转，还朝我扔东西。它们太危险了，我再也不敢一个人待在这儿了！”
Chapter Eighteen AN UNEXPECTED PRISONER
Chapter Eighteen AN UNEXPECTED PRISONER
　　THE Sticks stared at Edgar as if he was mad.
　　"Cows throwing things?" said Mrs. Stick at last. "What do you mean by that? Cows don't throwanything."
　　"These ones did," said Edgar, and then began to exaggerate in order to make his parents sympathisewith him. "They were dreadful cows, they were - hundreds of them, with horns as long as reindeer,and awful mooing voices. And they threw things at me and Tinker. Proper scared he was, and so wasI. I dropped the cushions I was taking down, and rushed away to hide.""Where are the cushions?" said Mr. Stick, looking round. "I can't see any cushions. I suppose you'lltell us the cows ate them."
　　"Didn't you take everything down into the dungeons?" demanded Mrs. Stick. "Because that room'sempty now. There's not a thing in it."
　　"I didn't take anything down at all," said Edgar, coming cautiously out of the dungeon entrance.
　　"I dropped the cushions just about where you're standing. What's happened to them?""Look 'ere!" said Mr. Stick, in amazement. "Who's been 'ere since we've been gone? Someone's takenthe cushions and everything else too. Where have they put them?""Pa, it was them cows," said Edgar, looking all round as if he expected to see cows walking off withcushions and silver and blankets.
　　"Shut up about them cows," said Mrs. Stick, suddenly losing her temper. "For one thing there aren'tany cows on this island, and that we do know, for we looked all over it this morning. What we heardlast night must have been queer sort of echoes rumbling round. No, my boy - there's something funnyabout all this. Looks as if there is somebody on the island!"A dismal howl came echoing up from below the ground. It was Stinker, terrified at being alonebelow, and not daring to come up.
　　"Poor lamb!" said Mrs. Stick, who seemed much fonder of Stinker than of anyone else.
　　"What's up with him?"
　　Stinker let out an even more doleful howl, and Mrs. Stick hurried down the steps to go to him.
　　Mr. Stick followed her, and Edgar lost no time in going after them.
　　83
　　"Quick!" said Julian, standing up. "Come with me, Dick. We may just have time to get that trunk!
　　Run!"
　　The two boys ran quickly down to the courtyard of the ruined castle. Each took a handle of the smalltrunk, and lifted it between them. They staggered back to George with it.
　　"We'll take it to the cave," whispered Julian. "You stay here a few minutes and see what happens."The boys went over the cliff with the trunk. George flattened herself behind her bush and watched.
　　Mr. Stick appeared again in a few minutes, and looked round for the trunk. His mouth fell open inastonishment when he saw that it was gone. He yelled down the entrance to the dungeon.
　　"Clara! The trunk's gone!"
　　Mrs. Stick was already on her way up, with Stinker close beside her and Edgar just behind. Sheclimbed out and stared round.
　　"Gone?" she said, in enormous surprise. "Gone? Where's it gone?""That's what I'd like to know!" said Mr. Stick. "We leave it here a few minutes - and then it goes.
　　Walks off by itself - just like all the other things!""Look here! There's someone on this island," said Mrs. Stick. "And I'm going to find out who it is.
　　Got your gun, Pa?"
　　"I have," said Mr. Stick, slapping his belt. "You get a good stout stick too, and we'll take Tinker.
　　If we don't ferret out whoever's trying to spoil our plans, my name's not Stick!"George slipped away quietly to warn the others. Before she slid down the rope into the cave, shepulled several bramble sprays across the hole. She dropped down to the floor of the cave, and told theothers what had happened.
　　Julian had been trying to open the trunk, but it was still locked. He looked up as George panted outher tale.
　　"We'll be all right here so long as no one falls down that hole in the roof!" he said. "Now keep quieteveryone, and don't you dare to growl, Timmy!"Nothing was heard for some time, and then Stinker's bark came in the distance. "Quiet now,"said Julian. "They are near here."
　　The Sticks were up on the cliff once more, searching carefully behind every bush. They came to thegreat bush behind which the children often hid, and saw the flattened grass there.
　　84
　　"Someone's been here," said Mr. Stick. "I wonder if they're in the middle of this bush - it's thickenough to hide half an army! I'll try and force my way in, Clara, while you stand by with my gun."Edgar wandered off by himself while this was happening, feeling certain that nobody would befoolish enough to live in the middle of such a prickly bush. He walked across the cliff - and then, tohis awful horror, he found himself falling! His legs disappeared into a hole, he clutched at somethorny sprays but could not save himself. Down he went, and down and down - and down -crash!
　　Edgar had fallen down the hole in the roof of the cave. He suddenly appeared before the children'sstartled eyes, and landed in a heap on the soft sand. Timmy at once pounced on him with a fearsomegrowl, but George pulled him off just in time.
　　Edgar was half-stunned with fright and his fall. He lay on the floor of the cave, groaning, his eyesshut. The children stared at him and then at one another. For a few moments they were completelytaken aback and didn't know what to do or say. Timmy growled ferociously - so ferociously thatEdgar opened, his eyes in fright. He stared round at the four children and their dog in the utmostsurprise and horror.
　　He opened his mouth to yell for help, but at once found Julian's large hand over it. "Yell just onceand Timmy shall have a bite out of any part of you he likes!" said Julian, in a voice as ferocious asTimothy's growl. "See? Like to try it? Timmy's waiting to bite.""I shan't yell," said Edgar, speaking in such a low whisper that the others could hardly hear him.
　　"Keep that dog off. I shan't yell."
　　George spoke to Timothy. "Now you listen, Timothy - if this boy shouts, you just go for him! Liehere by him and show him your big teeth. Bite him wherever you like if he yells.""Woof!" said Timmy, looking really pleased. He lay down by Edgar, and the boy tried to move away.
　　But Timmy came nearer every time he moved.
　　Edgar looked round at the children. "What you doing on this island?" he said. "We thought you'dgone home."
　　"It's our island!" said George, in a very fierce voice. "We've every right to be on it if we want to -but you have no right at all. None! What are you and your father and mother here for?""Don't know," said Edgar, looking sulky.
　　"You'd better tell us;" said Julian. "We know you're in league with smugglers."85
　　Edgar looked startled. "Smugglers?" he said. "I didn't know that. Pa and Ma don't tell me anything. Idon't want anything to do with smugglers.""Don't you know any-thing?" said Dick. "Don't you know why you've come to Kirrin Island?""I don't know anything," said Edgar, in an injured tone. "Pa and Ma are mean to me. They never tellme anything. I do as I'm told, that's all. I don't know anything about smugglers, I tell you that."It was quite plain to the children that Edgar really did not know anything of the reasons for hisparents coming to the island. "Well, I'm not surprised they don't let Spotty-Face into their secrets,"said Julian. "He'd blab them if he could, I bet. Anyway, we know it's smuggling they're mixed up in.""You let me go," said Edgar, sullenly. "You got no right to keep me here.""We're not going to let you go," said George at once. "You're our prisoner now. If we let you go backto your parents, you'd tell them all about us, and we don't want them to know we're here.
　　We're going to spoil their pretty plans, you see."Edgar saw. He saw quite a lot of things. He felt rather sick. "Was it you that took the cushions andthings?"
　　"Oh no, dear Edgar," said Dick. "It was the cows, wasn't it? Don't you remember how you told yourmother about the hundreds of cows that mooed at you and threw things and stole the cushions youdropped? Surely you haven't forgotten your cows already?""Funny, aren't you?" said Edgar, sulkily. "What you going to do with me? I won't stay here, that'sflat."
　　"But you will, Spotty-Face," said Julian. "You will stay here till we let you go - and that won't be tillwe've cleared up this little smuggling mystery. And let me warn you that any nonsense on your partwill be punished by Timmy."
　　"Lot of beasts you are," said Edgar, seeing that he could do nothing but obey the four children.
　　"My Pa and Ma won't half be furious with you."His Ma and Pa were feeling extremely astonished. There had, of course, been nobody hiding in thebig thick bush, and when Mr. Stick had wriggled out, scratched and bleeding, he had looked roundfor Edgar. And Edgar was not to be seen.
　　"Where's that dratted boy?" he said, and shouted for him. "Edgar! ED-GAR!"86
　　But Edgar did not answer. The Sticks spent a very long time looking for Edgar, both above groundand underground. Mrs. Stick was convinced that poor Edgar was lost in the dungeons, and she triedto send Stinker to find him. But Stinker only went as far as the first cave. He remembered the peculiarnoises of the night before and was not at all keen on exploring the dungeons.
　　Julian turned his attention to the little trunk, once Edgar had been dealt with. "I'm going to open thissomehow," he said. "I'm sure it's got smuggled goods in, though goodness knows what.""You'll have to smash the locks then," said Dick. Julian got a small rock and tried to smash the twolocks. He managed to wrench one open after a while, and then the other gave way too. The childrenthrew back the lid.
　　On the top was a child's blanket, embroidered with white rabbits. Julian pulled it off, expecting to seethe smuggled goods below. But to his astonishment there were a child's clothes!
　　He pulled them out. There were two blue jerseys, a blue skirt, some vests and knickers and a warmcoat. At the bottom of the trunk were some dolls and a teddy bear!
　　"Golly!" said Julian, in amazement. "What are all these for? Why did the Sticks bring these to theisland - and why did the smugglers hide them in the wreck? It's a puzzler!"Edgar appeared to be as astonished as the rest. He too had expected valuable goods of some kind.
　　George and Anne pulled out the dolls. They were lovely ones. Anne cuddled them up to her. Sheloved dolls, though George scorned them.
　　"Who do they belong to?" Anne said. "Oh won't she be sad not to have them? Julian, isn't it funny?
　　Why should anyone bring a trunk full of clothes and dolls to Kirrin Island?"
18.意想不到的囚犯
　　意想不到的囚犯
　　斯蒂克夫妇死死地盯着埃德加，好像他脑袋出了问题。
　　“牛扔东西？”斯蒂克太太说，“你这话是什么意思？牛怎么会扔东西？”
　　“可这些牛会。”埃德加故意夸大其词，为的是让他的爸妈同情他，“它们是最可怕的牛，有好几百头呢，犄角和驯鹿一样长，叫声特别吓人。它们朝我和笨笨扔东西，它吓坏了，我也吓坏了，于是丢下靠垫赶紧躲了起来。”
　　“靠垫在哪儿？”斯蒂克先生环顾四周，说道，“我没看见靠垫，你不会告诉我们牛把靠垫吃了吧？”
　　“你不是把所有东西都带到地牢里去了吗？”斯蒂克太太问，“那个房间已经空了，里面什么都没有了。”
　　“我没搬过什么东西呀！”埃德加说着，小心翼翼地从地牢门口走出来，“我把靠垫扔在你站的地方就跑了，奇怪了。”
　　斯蒂克先生惊奇地说：“难道说我们走了以后有人来过？他们拿走了靠垫和其他东西。那东西被他们藏哪儿了呢？”
　　“爸爸，东西是那些牛拿走的。”埃德加一边说着，一边环顾四周，仿佛他想找到正抱着靠垫、银器和毯子走来走去的牛群。
　　“住口！”斯蒂克太太突然大发脾气，“这个岛上根本就没有牛，我们今天早上已经到处找过了。昨天晚上我们听到的应该是一种奇怪的回声。不过，这一切都有点奇怪，看来岛上还有别人！”
　　突然，地下传来一声凄厉的号叫，那是臭鬼的悲鸣，它害怕独自待在下面，又不敢上来。
　　“可怜的狗狗！”斯蒂克太太说，比起儿子，她似乎更喜欢臭鬼。
　　“笨笨怎么了？”
　　臭鬼发出了一声更凄惨的号叫，斯蒂克太太急忙走下台阶去看它。斯蒂克先生跟在她后面，埃德加也立即追上去。
　　“快！”朱利安一下子站起来，“迪克，跟我来，我们也许有时间去拿那个箱子！快！”
　　两个男孩飞快地跑到城堡的院子里，分别拎着箱子的两个把手，抬起就走，摇摇晃晃地回到乔治身边。
　　“我俩把它提到岩洞去。”朱利安低声说，“你在这里继续观察，看看接下来会发生什么。”
　　男孩们带着箱子爬下悬崖。乔治则继续趴在灌木丛后面监视着城堡。几分钟后，斯蒂克先生回到了院子里，寻找那个箱子，但怎么也找不到。他惊讶地张大了嘴巴，然后冲着地牢入口大叫：“克拉拉！箱子不见了！”
　　斯蒂克太太正往上爬台阶，臭鬼和埃德加紧随其后。她走到斯蒂克先生旁边，环顾四周。
　　“不见了？”她惊讶地说，“箱子哪儿去了？”
　　“我也想知道呢！”斯蒂克先生说，“我们刚把它放在这里几分钟，就不见了。难道它自己会走——就像其他的东西一样？！”
　　“看来岛上有人，”斯蒂克太太说，“我一定要把他揪出来。你带枪了吗？”
　　“带了！”斯蒂克先生一边说，一边拍着腰带，“你也准备一根结实的棍子，我们带上笨笨，不查出想破坏我们计划的人，我就不是斯蒂克！”
　　乔治悄悄地往岩洞挪动，准备去警告其他人。在顺着绳子滑进岩洞之前，她在窟窿旁边放了几束荆棘，一进洞里，她就把发生的事情告诉了其他人。
　　朱利安一直想把箱子打开，但怎么也打不开。就在乔治气喘吁吁地讲述刚刚的“见闻”时，他抬起头来。
　　“只要没人踩到屋顶的窟窿掉下来，我们就没事！”他说，“现在大家开始保持安静，蒂米，千万别叫！”
　　过了好长一段时间，他们什么也没听到，随后传来了臭鬼的吠声。“安静，”朱利安说，“他们就在这附近。”
　　斯蒂克一家又来到了悬崖上，在每一丛灌木后面仔细地搜寻着。他们走到孩子们经常躲藏的灌木丛前，看到了那里被压扁的草。
　　“有人来过，”斯蒂克先生说，“他们会不会躲在这树丛中间呢？
　　这树丛密不透风，里面藏得下千军万马！克拉拉，你拿着我的枪守在这儿，我进去看看。”
　　与此同时，埃德加独自一个人溜走了，他确信没有人会傻到待在有这么多刺的灌木丛中。谁知，他刚穿过悬崖，突然脚底一空——他的双腿消失在一个窟窿里，他试图抓住一些带刺的荆棘，却无法自救。他在急速下坠，下坠，直到“砰”的一声摔落在地上！
　　埃德加从岩洞顶上的窟窿跌了下来，落在松软的沙子上。他的突然出现令孩子们惊恐不已。蒂米立刻狂吼一声扑向了他，但乔治及时把它拉开了。
　　埃德加吓得半死，又疼又吃惊。他躺在岩洞的地上，闭着眼睛呻吟着。孩子们先是盯着他，然后又面面相觑，他们都吓了一跳，不知所措。蒂米恶狠狠地咆哮着，埃德加吓得睁开了眼睛。他逐个看着四个孩子和他们的狗，一脸的惊愕和恐惧。
　　他刚想大声呼救，但朱利安的大手立刻捂住了他的嘴巴。“只要你喊出一声，蒂米就会立刻咬住你！”朱利安的声音像蒂米的咆哮一样凶狠，“你要试一试吗？蒂米正等着呢。”
　　“不叫了，不叫了，”埃德加低声说，声音小得其他人几乎听不见，“别让那条狗靠近我，我不会叫的。”
　　乔治对蒂米命令道：“现在你听着，蒂米，如果这个男孩喊叫，你就咬他！来，趴在他旁边，给他看看你锋利的牙齿。只要他敢叫，你就随便咬。”
　　“汪！”蒂米回应了一声，看上去很高兴。它趴在埃德加旁边，那孩子想躲开它，但他每挪开一点，蒂米就靠近一点。
　　埃德加环顾四周，看着孩子们，“你们在这个岛上干什么？”他说，“我们以为你们已经回家了。”
　　“这是我们的岛！”乔治义正词严地说，“我们想来就来——但你没有权利来这里，你们一家谁也没有这个权利！你和你爸爸妈妈来这里干什么？”
　　“不知道。”埃德加脸色阴沉地说。
　　“你最好告诉我们，”朱利安说，“我们知道你们和走私犯是一伙的。”
　　埃德加似乎吓了一跳，“走私犯？”他说，“我什么都不清楚，爸爸妈妈什么都没告诉我，我也不想和走私犯有任何瓜葛。”
　　“你真不知道吗？”迪克说，“你不知道你们为什么要来科林岛？”
　　“是真的，我什么都不知道，”埃德加伤心地说，“爸爸妈妈根本不信任我，从不告诉我任何事情，平时都是他们让我做什么，我就做什么。我对走私犯一无所知，真没骗人。”
　　看得出来，埃德加确实不知道他父母来岛上的目的。“他们对埃德加保密，我倒是一点都不奇怪，”朱利安说，“我敢打赌，如果他要是知道的话，肯定会说出来的。至少，我们知道他们参与了走私。”
　　“你们让我走吧，”埃德加闷闷不乐地说，“你们没有权利把我留在这里。”
　　“我们不会让你走的，”乔治立刻说，“你现在是我们的俘虏。如果我们放你回去，你会把我们的一切都告诉给你爸妈，我们可不想让他们知道我们在这里，我们还等着破坏他们的如意算盘呢。”
　　埃德加看到了被朱利安他们搬回来的那些东西，感到浑身不舒服，“是你们拿了靠垫和其他东西吗？”
　　“哦，不，亲爱的埃德加，”迪克说，“是那些牛。你忘了你是怎么告诉你妈妈的吗？那几百头牛朝你叫，扔东西，还偷走了你掉在地上的靠垫。你肯定还没忘记那些牛吧？”
　　“你们觉得很有趣，是吗？”埃德加闷闷不乐地说，“你们打算怎么处置我？我不想待在这里，这里一点都不好玩。”
　　“但你必须待在这里。”朱利安说，“在我们放你走之前，你得一直待在这里。也就是说，等我们解开这个小小的走私之谜才会放你走。我警告你，不要乱喊乱叫，否则，蒂米会让你知道厉害。”
　　“你们这些混蛋，”埃德加说，“我爸爸妈妈是不会放过你们的。”
　　然而此时，斯蒂克夫妇正满脸狐疑——在这个又大又密的灌木丛里实在没发现有什么人躲在里面。斯蒂克先生被荆棘划得满身是血，好不容易从灌木丛中挣脱出来。他四处寻找埃德加，却不见他的踪影。
　　“这个兔崽子去哪儿了？”他高声喊着，“埃德加！埃——德——加——！”
　　但埃德加没有回答。斯蒂克夫妇花了很长时间在地上和地下寻找埃德加，都没有找到。斯蒂克太太确信可怜的埃德加在地牢里迷路了，便派臭鬼去找他。但是臭鬼走到第一个牢房就不走了，它还对前一天晚上的那种奇怪声音心有余悸，根本不敢往前走。
　　朱利安把注意力转到那个小箱子上，可埃德加也不知道怎么打开它。“我必须想办法打开它，”朱利安说，“我敢肯定里面装着走私的货物。可到底是什么呢？”
　　“不如你干脆把锁砸开吧。”迪克建议道。
　　于是，朱利安找了块石头，开始用力砸锁。过了一会儿，箱子上的两把锁相继被砸开，孩子们迫不及待地揭开箱盖。
　　箱子的最上面是一条小孩用的毛毯，上面绣着一只小白兔。朱利安掀开毛毯，想着能看见下面有一堆走私的宝物，但令他感到惊讶的是，下面竟然是一堆孩子的衣服！
　　他把衣服一件件取出来，两件蓝色的运动衫，一条蓝色的裙子，几件内衣和一件暖和的外套。在箱子的最底下还有几个玩具娃娃！
　　“天哪！”朱利安惊讶地说，“这是干什么用的？斯蒂克夫妇为什么要把这些东西带到岛上，走私者为什么会把它们藏在沉船里？这简直就是个谜！”
　　埃德加似乎也很吃惊，因为他也期望能看到什么有价值的东西。乔治和安妮拿出了洋娃娃，它们很可爱。安妮把它们搂在怀里轻轻抚摸着，她喜欢洋娃娃，但乔治却不喜欢。
　　“它们是谁的呢？”安妮问道，“她丢了这些东西肯定会难过得不行！朱利安，这也太奇怪了，为什么有人要把一个装满衣服和洋娃娃的箱子带到科林岛上来呢？”
Chapter Nineteen A SCREAM IN THE NIGHT
Chapter Nineteen A SCREAM IN THE NIGHT
　　NOBODY could even guess the answers to Anne's surprised questions. The children stared into thetrunk and puzzled over it. It seemed such a funny thing to smuggle. They remembered the otherthings in the wreck too - the tins of food. They were queer things to smuggle into the island. Theredidn't seem any point in it.
　　87
　　"Funny," said Dick, at last. "It beats me. There's no doubt that queer things are afoot here, or theSticks wouldn't be hanging around our island. And we've seen signals from a ship out to Sea.
　　Something's going on. We thought if we opened this trunk it might help us - but it's only made themystery deeper."
　　Just then the voices of the two parent Sticks could be heard shouting for Edgar. But Edgar did notdare to shout back. Timmy's nose was poked against his leg. He might be nipped at any time.
　　Timmy growled every now and again to remind Edgar that he was still there.
　　"Do you know anything about the ship that signals to this island at night?" asked Julian, turning toEdgar.
　　The boy shook his head. "Never heard of any signals," he said. "I just heard my mother saying thatshe expected the Roamer tonight, but I don't know what she meant.""The Roamer?" said George, at once. "What's that - a man - or a boat - or what?""I don't know," said Edgar. "I'd only have got a clip on the ear if I'd asked. Find out yourself.""We will," said Julian, grimly. "We'll watch out for the Roamer tonight! Thanks for the information."The children spent a quiet and rather boring day in the cave - all but Anne, who had plenty of thingsto arrange again. Really, the cave looked most home-like when she had finished! She put the blanketson the bed, and used the rugs as carpets. So the cave really looked most imposing!
　　Edgar was not allowed to go out of the cave, and Timothy didn't leave him for a moment. He sleptmost of the time, complaining that "those cows and things" had frightened him so much the nightbefore that he'd not been able to sleep a wink.
　　The others discussed their plans in low voices. They decided to keep watch on the cliff-top, two andtwo together, that night. They would wait and see what happened. If the Roamer came, they wouldhurriedly make fresh plans then.
　　The sun sank. The night came up dark over the sea. Edgar snored softly, after a very good supper ofsardines, pressed beef sandwiches, tinned apricots and tinned milk. Anne and Dick went up to keepthe first watch. It was about half-past ten.
　　At half-past twelve Julian and George climbed up the knotted rope and joined the other two.
　　They had nothing to report. They went down into the cave, got into their comfortable beds and wentto sleep. Edgar was snoring away in his corner, Timmy still on guard.
　　88
　　Julian and George looked out to sea, watching for any sign of a ship. The moon was up that night,and things were not quite so dark. Suddenly they heard low voices, and saw shadowy figures downby the rocks below.
　　"The two Sticks," whispered Julian. "Going to row out to the wreck again, I suppose."There was the splash of oars, and the children saw a boat move out over the water. At the same timeGeorge nudged Julian violently and pointed out to sea. A light was being shown a good way out,from a ship that the children could barely see. Then the moon went behind a cloud, and they couldsee nothing for some time.
　　They watched breathlessly. Was that shadowy ship a good way out the Roamer? Or was the owner ofit the "Roamer'? Were the smugglers at work tonight?
　　"There's another boat coming - look!" said George. "It must be coming from that ship out to sea.
　　Now the moon has come out again, you can just see it. It is going to the old wreck. It must be ameeting-place, I should think."
　　Then, most irritatingly, the moon went behind a cloud again, and remained there so long that thechildren grew impatient. At last it sailed out again and lighted up the water.
　　"Both boats are leaving the wreck now," said Julian excitedly. "They've had their meeting - andpassed over the smuggled goods, I suppose - and now one boat is returning to the ship, and the other,the Sticks' boat, is coming back here with the goods. We'll follow the Sticks when they get back andsee where they put the goods."
　　After a long time the Sticks" boat came to shore again. The children could not see anything then, butpresently they saw the Sticks going back towards the castle. Mr. Stick carried what looked like alarge bundle, flung over his shoulder. They could not see if Mrs. Stick carried anything.
　　The Sticks went into the courtyard of the castle, and came to the dungeon entrance. "They're takingthe smuggled goods down there," whispered Julian to George. The children were now watching frombehind a nearby wall. "We'll go back and tell the others, and make some more plans. We mustsomehow or other get those goods ourselves, and take them back to the mainland and get in touchwith the police!"
　　Just then a scream rang out in the night. It was a high-pitched, terrified scream, and frightened thewatching children very much. They had no idea where it came from.
　　89
　　"Quick! It must be Anne!" said Julian, and the two ran as fast as they could to the hole that led downto the cave. They dropped down the rope and Julian looked round the quiet cave anxiously.
　　What had happened to Anne to make her scream like that?
　　But Anne was peacefully asleep on her bed, and so was Dick. Edgar still snored and Timmy watched,his eyes gleaming green.
　　"Funny," said Julian, still startled. "Awfully queer. Who screamed like that? It couldn't possibly havebeen Anne - because if she had screamed in her sleep like that, she would have wakened the others.""Well, who screamed, then?" said George, feeling rather scared. "Wasn't it weird, Julian? I didn't likeit. It was somebody who was awfully frightened. But who could it be?"They woke Dick and Anne and told them about the strange scream. Anne was very startled. Dick wasinterested to hear that two boats had met at the wreck, and that the Sticks had brought back smuggledgoods of some sort, and taken them down in the dungeons.
　　"We'll get those tomorrow, somehow!" he said, cheerfully. "We'll have good fun.""Why did you think it was me screaming?" asked Anne. "Did you think it was a girl's scream?""Yes. It sounded like the scream you give when one of us jumps out at you suddenly," said Julian, "Aproper little girl's scream - not a yell, like a boy gives.""It's funny," said Anne. She cuddled down into her bed again, and George got in beside her.
　　"Oh Anne!" said George, in disgust, "you've got our bed simply full of those dolls - and that teddybear is here too! You really are a baby!""No, I'm not," said Anne. "The dolls and the bear are babies - they are frightened and lonely becausethey're not with the little girl they belong to. So I had them in bed with me instead! I'm sure the littlegirl would be glad."
　　"The little girl!" said Julian, slowly. "We thought we heard a little girl scream tonight - we found asmall trunk full of a little girl's clothes, and a little girl's dolls. What does it all mean?"There was a silence - and then Anne spoke excitedly. "I know! The smuggled goods are a little girl!
　　They've stolen a little girl away - and these are her dolls, and those over there are her clothes thatwere stolen at the same time, for her to dress in and play with. The little girl's here, on this island now- you heard her scream tonight when those horrid Sticks carried her down into the dungeons!"90
　　"Well - I do believe Anne has hit on the right idea," said Julian. "Clever little girl, Anne! I thinkyou're right. It isn't smugglers who are using this island - it's kidnappers!""What are kidnappers?" said Anne.
　　"People who steal away children or grown-ups and hide them somewhere till a large sum of money ispaid out for them," explained Julian. "It's called a ransom. Till the ransom is paid, the prisoner is heldby the captors."
　　"Well, that's what's happened here then!" said George.
　　"I bet it has! Some poor little rich girl has been stolen away - and brought to the wreck by boat fromsome ship - and taken over by those horrible Sticks. Wicked creatures!""And we heard the poor little thing scream just as she was taken down underground," said George.
　　"Julian, we've got to rescue her."
　　"Yes, of course," said Julian. "We will, never fear! We'll rescue her tomorrow."Edgar woke up and joined in the conversation suddenly. "What you talking about?" he said.
　　"Rescue who?"
　　"Never you mind," said Julian.
　　George nudged him and whispered.
　　"All I hope is that Mrs. Stick is feeling as upset about losing her dear Edgar as the mother of the littlegirl," she said.
　　"Tomorrow we find the little girl somehow, and take her away," said Julian. "I expect the Sticks willbe on guard, but we'll find a way."
　　"I'm tired now," said George, lying down. "Let's go to sleep. We'll wake up nice and fresh. Oh Anne,do put these dolls your side. I'm lying on at least three."Anne took the dolls and the bear and arranged them on her side of the bed. "Don't feel lonely,"George heard her say. "I'll look after you all right till you go back to your own mistress. Sleep tight!"Soon they all slept - all but Timothy, who lay with one eye open all night long. There was no need toput anyone on guard while Timmy was there. He was the best guardian they could have.
19.午夜尖叫
　　午夜尖叫
　　没人能够回答安妮这个问题。孩子们盯着箱子，对它百思不得其解，谁会走私这些奇怪的东西呢？他们还记得在沉船里看到的其他东西——罐头和餐具，把这些东西走私到岛上这件事，似乎没有任何意义。
　　“毫无疑问，”迪克说，“这里正发生着一些怪事，否则斯蒂克一家就不会出现在我们的岛上了。我们已经看到一艘船向这里发信号了，那就证明肯定有什么事情在发生。还以为打开这个箱子会帮我们解开谜团呢，没想到让我们更陷入了云雾中。”
　　就在这时，他们听到斯蒂克夫妇在喊埃德加，但埃德加不敢应声，蒂米的嘴正对着他的大腿呢，他可能随时被它咬掉一块肉下来。蒂米也不时地发出低吼来警告埃德加。
　　“你知道夜里向这个岛发出信号的那艘船吗？”朱利安回头问埃德加。
　　男孩摇了摇头，“从没听说过什么信号，”他说，“我只听到妈妈说她今晚要见隆姆，但我不知道是什么意思。”
　　“隆姆？”乔治马上说，“那是什么？是人还是船？还是别的什么东西？”
　　“我不知道，”埃德加说，“如果我追问的话，肯定会挨揍，你们还是自己去查吧。”
　　“我们会去查的。”朱利安冷冷地说，“今晚要当心隆姆！谢谢你的信息。”
　　孩子们在洞穴里度过了平静而无聊的一天——除了安妮，她有很多东西要重新安排布置。不得不说，当她整理完这一切的时候，这个洞看起来就像家一样舒适！她把毯子放在床上，把围毯当地毯用，整个岩洞里看起来十分温馨。
　　他们不许埃德加走出岩洞，蒂米一刻也没离开他。埃德加抱怨前一天晚上被“那些牛之类的东西”吓得没睡好觉，所以大部分时间都在睡觉。
　　其他人开始低声讨论他们的计划。他们决定等天黑的时候，两人一组，在悬崖顶上进行监视。一旦隆姆出现，他们就赶紧制订下一步计划。
　　太阳落山了，黑夜渐渐笼罩了海面。埃德加吃了一顿丰盛的晚餐——沙丁鱼、牛肉三明治、杏子罐头和牛奶罐头后，又轻轻地打起了呼噜。安妮和迪克爬到岩洞上去值第一班，此时大约是十点半。
　　十二点半的时候，朱利安和乔治爬上那根打结的绳子，和另外两个人会合。迪克和安妮没什么消息可交代的，便回到洞里，躺到舒适的床上开始睡觉。埃德加一直在角落里呼呼大睡，蒂米还在监视着他。
　　此时皓月当空，外面的景物依稀可见。朱利安和乔治向海面上望去，寻找船只航行的迹象。突然，他们听到了低低的说话声，并看到模糊的人影在下面的礁石那里移动。
　　“应该是斯蒂克夫妇。”朱利安小声说，“估计他们又要划船到沉船那儿去了。”
　　循着“哗啦哗啦”的划水声，孩子们看见一艘船开始在水面上移动。与此同时，乔治轻轻推了朱利安一下，抬起手指向大海更远处。顺着她手指的方向，朱利安看到一盏灯正从一艘船上亮起来。
　　但很快，他们就什么也看不见了，因为月亮躲到了云层后面。
　　他们屏住呼吸监视着。那艘影影绰绰的船就是隆姆吗？或者船的主人叫隆姆？这是走私犯在行动吗？
　　“又出现了一条船！”乔治低声说，“它一定是从海上那艘船上放下来的。现在月亮又出来了，你能看见它正在向沉船划去，我想，那里一定是接头地点。”
　　然而令人恼火的是，月亮很快又躲到了云层后面，好长时间都不出来，正当他俩都等得不耐烦的时候，月亮总算照亮了海面。
　　“两艘船现在都离开沉船了。”朱利安兴奋地说，“他们应该是接过头了，我猜他们刚交接完走私品。现在一艘船正在返回轮船；而斯蒂克夫妇的船要回到这里，他们肯定是带着货物回来了。等斯蒂克夫妇回来时，我们得跟着他们，看看他们把货物藏在哪里。”
　　过了好一会儿，斯蒂克夫妇才回到岸边。那时，孩子们什么也看不见，等月光再次出来的时候，他们才发现斯蒂克夫妇已经接近城堡了。斯蒂克先生肩上扛着一大捆东西，但他们看不清斯蒂克太太是否带着什么东西。
　　斯蒂克夫妇走进城堡的院子，来到地牢入口。“他们要把走私货物带下去。”朱利安小声对乔治说。此时，两个孩子正在附近的一堵墙后面监视着，“我们回去告诉其他人，再制订下一步计划。我们必须设法弄到那些货物，然后把它们带回陆地，并和警察取得联系！”
　　就在这时，一声尖叫划破夜空。那是一声尖锐的、惊恐的尖叫，把正在监视的两个孩子吓坏了，他们不知道声音是从哪里传出来的。
　　“快！一定是安妮！”朱利安急促地说，两个人飞快地跑向岩洞。他们顺着绳子滑到洞里，朱利安焦虑不安地扫视了一遍寂静的岩洞。安妮发生了什么事，她为什么发出这样的尖叫？
　　但是安妮正在床上安静地睡着，迪克也在梦乡中。埃德加仍然打着呼噜，蒂米监视着他，眼里闪着绿幽幽的光。
　　“太奇怪了，”朱利安疑惑地说，“刚刚那声尖叫不是安妮发出的，如果是她的话，他们这会儿应该都被吵醒了。”
　　“那么是谁在尖叫呢，朱利安？”乔治感到有点害怕，“我不喜欢这个声音，听起来像是一个极度惊恐的人发出的，但那会是谁呢？”
　　他们叫醒了迪克和安妮，把奇怪的尖叫声告诉了他们。安妮非常震惊。迪克倒是对两艘船在沉船那里接头的事情感到非常兴奋，尤其是听说斯蒂克夫妇还带回一些走私货物，并把它们带到了地牢里。
　　“不管怎样，明天我们要拿到走私品，”他高兴地说，“想想就觉得很刺激。”
　　“为什么你以为是我在尖叫？”安妮问，“你认为是女孩子的尖叫吗？”
　　“是的。听起来很像你发出的尖叫声，就像我们当中的某个人突然出现在你背后吓你一跳时，你发出的那种害怕的尖叫声。”朱利安说，“我确定，那绝对是一个小女孩的尖叫声。”
　　“这就奇怪了。”安妮说着又依偎在床上，乔治在她旁边坐了下来。
　　“哦，安妮！”乔治厌恶地说，“你居然把那些洋娃娃放在我们的床上，那个泰迪熊也在这儿！你真是个小宝宝！”
　　“才不是呢。”安妮说，“这些娃娃和熊看起来又孤独又害怕，因为它们没有和它们的小主人在一起。所以我让它们跟我睡在一起！
　　我相信那个小女孩会很高兴的。”
　　“小女孩！”朱利安若有所思地说，“对了，我们都认为今晚听到了一个小女孩的尖叫声，之前发现箱子里又装满了小女孩的衣服，还有小女孩的洋娃娃。这一切都意味着什么？”
　　一阵沉默之后，安妮突然兴奋地说：“我知道了！走私品就是一个小女孩！他们偷走了一个小女孩——这是她的娃娃，那边那些是她的衣服。走私者之所以也偷了她的衣服，是为了让她有衣服穿，有玩具玩，这个小女孩就在这座岛上。今晚被可怕的斯蒂克夫妇带进地牢的就是她，你们听到的尖叫声也是她发出的！”
　　“我相信安妮的分析是对的，”朱利安说，“你真聪明，安妮！利用这个岛犯罪的不是走私犯，而是绑匪！”
　　“绑匪？”安妮问道。
　　朱利安解释说：“有些人会把孩子或大人拐走，然后藏在某个地方，直到他们得到一大笔钱，也就是赎金，才会把人放回去。”
　　“肯定是这么回事！”乔治说。
　　“一定是某个富家小姑娘被人拐走了，轮船上的人用小船把她运到了沉船上，然后交给可恶的斯蒂克夫妇。这帮大坏蛋！”
　　“当这个可怜的小姑娘被带到地下时，害怕得尖叫起来。”乔治说，“朱利安，我们必须去救她！”
　　“当然！”朱利安说，“不要担心，明天我们就去救她。”
　　这时，埃德加醒了，他突然插话道：“你们在说什么？救谁呀？”
　　“不关你的事。”朱利安说。
　　乔治用手肘轻轻地碰了碰他，低声说：“希望斯蒂克太太这会儿正像失去小女孩的那位母亲一样，为失去她的埃德加而难过。”
　　“明天我们必须设法找到那个小女孩，把她带走。”朱利安说，“斯蒂克夫妇恐怕会小心防备，但我们会找到办法的。”
　　“好累啊，”乔治躺下说，“我们先睡觉吧，一觉醒来，精神饱满地去营救。嘿，安妮，把这些洋娃娃放到你那边，我身子下面至少有三个。”
　　安妮把布娃娃和小熊放到她这边的床上。“别害怕，”乔治听到安妮说，“我会好好照顾你们的，直到你们回到自己的小主人身边。
　　做个好梦吧！”
　　不久，除了蒂米以外，所有的人都睡着了。蒂米整夜都睁着一只眼睛趴在那里。有蒂米在，其他人没有必要提心吊胆，蒂米是他们最好的护卫者。
Chapter Twenty A RESCUE - AND A NEW PRISONER!
Chapter Twenty A RESCUE - AND A NEW PRISONER!
　　THE next day Julian was awake early and went up the rope to the cliff-top to see if the Sticks wereabout. He saw them coming up the steps that led from the dungeons. Mrs. Stick looked pale andworried.
　　"We've got to find our Edgar," she kept saying to Mr. Stick. "I tell you we've got to find our Edgar.
　　He's not down in the dungeons. That I do know. We've yelled ourselves hoarse down there.""And he's not on the island," said Mr. Stick. "We hunted all over it yesterday. I think whoever washere then, took our goods, caught Edgar, and made off with him and everything else in their boat.
　　That's what I think."
　　"Well, they've taken him to the mainland then," said Mrs. Stick. "We'd better take our boat and goback there and ask a few questions. What I'd like to know is - who is it messing about here andinterfering with our plans? It makes me scared. Just when things are going nicely too!""Is it all right to leave here just now?" said Mr. Stick, doubtfully. "Suppose whoever was hereyesterday is still here - they might pop down into the dungeons when we're gone.""Well, they're not here," said Mrs. Stick, firmly. "Use your common sense, if you've got any -wouldn't our Edgar yell the place down if he was being kept prisoner on this little island - andwouldn't we hear him? I tell you he must have been taken off in a boat, together with all the otherthings that are gone. And I don't like it.""All right, all right!" said Mr. Stick in a grumbling tone. "That boy's always a nuisance - always insilly trouble of some sort."
　　"How can you talk of poor Edgar like that?" cried Mrs. Stick. "Do you think the poor child likesbeing captured! Goodness knows what he's going through - feeling frightened and lonely withoutme."
　　Julian felt disgusted. Here was Mrs. Stick talking like that about old Spotty-Face - and yet she had alittle girl down in the dungeons - a child much younger than Edgar! What a beast she was.
　　"What about Tinker?" said Mr. Stick, in a sulky tone. "Better leave him here, hadn't we, to guard theentrance to the dungeons? Not that there will be anyone here, if what you say is right."92
　　"Oh, we'll leave Tinker," said Mrs. Stick, setting off to the boat. Julian saw them embark, leaving thedog behind. Tinker watched them rowing away, his tail well down between his legs. Then he turnedand ran back to the courtyard, and lay down dolefully in the sun. He was very uneasy. His ears werecocked and he kept looking this way and that. He didn't like this queer island and its unexpectednoises.
　　Julian tore back to the cave and dropped down the rope, startling Edgar very much. "Come outsidethe cave and I'll tell you my plans," said Julian to the others. He didn't want Edgar to hear them. Theyall went outside.
　　Anne had got breakfast ready while Julian had been gone, and the kettle was boiling away merrily onthe little stove.
　　"Listen!" said Julian. "The Sticks have gone off in their boat back to the mainland to see if they canfind their precious little darling Edgar. Mrs. Stick is all hot and bothered because she thinkssomeone's gone off with him and she's afraid the poor boy will be feeling frightened and lonely!""Well!" said George. "Doesn't she think that the little kidnapped girl must be feeling much worse?
　　What a horrid woman she is!"
　　"You're right," said Julian. "Well, what I propose to do is this - we'll go down into the dungeons nowand rescue the little girl - and bring her here to our cave for breakfast. Then we'll take her off in ourboat, go to the police, find out where her parents are, and telephone to them that she is safe.""What shall we do with Edgar?" said Anne.
　　"I know!" said George at once. "We'll put Edgar into the dungeon instead of the little girl! Think howastonished the Sticks will be to find the little girl gone and their dear Edgar shut up in the dungeoninstead!"
　　"Oooh! - that is a good idea," said Anne, and all the others laughed and agreed.
　　"You stay here, Anne, and cut some more bread and butter for the little girl," said Julian. He knewthat Anne hated going down into the dungeons.
　　Anne nodded, pleased.
　　"All right, I will. I'll just take the kettle off for a bit too, or else the water will boil away."They all went back into the cave. "Come with us, Edgar," said Julian. "You come too, Timmy.""Where're you going to take me?" said Edgar, suspiciously.
　　"A nice cosy, comfortable place, where cows can't get at you," said Julian. "Come on! Buck up."93
　　"Gr-r-r-r-r-r," said Timmy, his nose against Edgar's leg. Edgar got up in a hurry.
　　They all went up the rope, one after another, though Edgar was terribly scared, and was sure hecouldn't. But with Timmy snapping at his ankles below, he climbed up the rope remarkably quickly,and was hauled out at the top by Julian.
　　"Now, quick march!" said Julian, who wanted to get everything over before the Sticks thought ofreturning. And quick march it was, over the cliffs, over the low wall of the castle, and down into thecourtyard.
　　"I'm not going down into those dungeons with you," said Edgar, in alarm.
　　"You are, Spotty-Face," said Julian, amiably.
　　"Where's my Pa and Ma?" said Edgar, looking anxiously all round.
　　"Those cows have got them, I expect," said George. "The ones that came and mooed at you and threwthings, you know."
　　Everyone giggled, except Edgar, who looked worried and pale. He did not like this kind of adventureat all. The children came to the dungeon entrance, and found that the Sticks had not only closed downthe stone that opened the way to the dungeons, but had also dragged heavy rocks across it.
　　"Blow your parents!" said Julian, to Edgar. "Making a lot of trouble for everybody. Come on, stiryourself - all hands to these stones. Edgar, pull when we pull. Go on! You'll get into trouble if youdon't."
　　Edgar pulled with the rest, and one by one the rocks were moved away. Then the heavy trapdoorstone was hauled up too, and the flight of steps was exposed leading down into darkness.
　　"There's Tinker!" suddenly cried Edgar, pointing to a bush some distance away. Tinker was there,hiding, quite terrified at seeing Timothy again.
　　Fat lot of good Stinker is," said Julian. "No, Timmy - you're not to eat him. Stay here! He wouldn'ttaste nice if you did eat him!"
　　Timothy was sorry not to be able to chase Stinker round and round the island. If he couldn't chaserabbits, he might at least be allowed to chase Stinker!
　　They all went down into the dungeons. Julian's white chalk-marks were still on the rocky walls, so itwas easy to find the way to the cave-like room where the children, last summer, had found piles ofgolden ingots. They felt sure that the little kidnapped girl had been put there, for this cave had a bigwooden door that could be bolted on the outside.
　　94
　　They came to the door. It was well and truly bolted. There was no sound from inside. Everyonehalted outside and Timmy scratched at the door, whining gently. He knew there was someone inside.
　　"Hallo, there!" shouted Julian, in a loud and cheerful voice. "Are you all right? We've come to rescueyou."
　　There was a scrambling noise, as if someone had got up from a stool. Then a small voice soundedfrom the cave.
　　"Hallo! Who are you? Oh, do please rescue me! I'm so lonely and frightened!""Just undoing the door!" called back Julian, cheerfully. "We're all children out here, so don't beafraid. You'll soon be safe."
　　He shot back the bolts, and flung open the door. Inside the cave, which was lighted by a lantern,stood a small girl, with a scared little white face, and large dark eyes. Dark red hair tumbled roundher cheeks, and she had evidently been crying bitterly, for her face was dirty and tear-stained.
　　Dick went to her and put his arm round her. "Everything's all right now," he said. "You're safe.
　　We'll take you back to your mother."
　　"I do want her, I do, I do," said the little girl, and tears ran down her cheeks again. "Why am I here? Idon't like being here."
　　"Oh, it's just an adventure you've had," said. Julian. "It's over now - at least, nearly over. There's stilla bit of it left - a nice bit, though. We want you to come and have breakfast with us in our cave.
　　We've a lovely cave."
　　"Oh, have you?" said the little girl, rubbing her eyes. "I want to go with you, I like you, but I didn'tlike those other people."
　　"Of course you didn't," said George. "Look! This is Timothy, our dog. He wants to be friends withyou."
　　"What a simply lovely dog!" said the little girl, and flung her arms around Timmy's neck. He lickedher in delight. George was pleased. She put her arm round the little girl.
　　"What's your name?" she said.
　　"Jennifer Mary Armstrong," said the little girl. "What's yours?""George," said George, and the little girl nodded, thinking that George was a boy, not a girl, for shewas dressed in jeans just like Julian and Dick, and her hair was short, too, though very curly.
　　95
　　The others told her their names - and then she looked at Edgar, who had said nothing.
　　"This is Spotty-Face," said Julian. "He isn't a friend of ours. It was his father and mother who put youhere, Jennifer. Now we are going to leave him here in your place. It will be such a pleasant surprisefor them, won't it?"
　　Edgar gave a yell of dismay and tried to back away - but Julian gave him a strong shove that sent himflying into the cave.
　　"There's only one way to teach people like you and your parents that wickedness doesn't pay!"said the boy, grimly. "And that is to punish you hard. People like you don't understand kindness.
　　You think it's just being soft and silly. All right - you can have a taste of what Jennifer has had. It willdo you good, and do your parents a lot of good too! Good-bye!"Edgar began to howl dismally as Julian bolted the big wooden door top and bottom. "I shall starve!"he wailed.
　　"Oh no, you won't," said Julian. "There's plenty of food and water in there, so help yourself. It woulddo you good to go hungry for a while, all the same.""Mind the cows don't get you!" called Dick, and he gave a realistic moo that startled Jennifer verymuch, for the echoes came mooing round too.
　　"It's all right - only the echoes," said George, smiling at her in the torch-light. Edgar howled away inthe cave, sobbing like a baby.
　　"Little coward, isn't he?" said Julian. "Come on - let's get back. I'm awfully hungry for my breakfast.""So am I," said Jennifer, slipping her small hand into Julian's. "I wasn't hungry at all in that cave- but now I am. Thank you for rescuing me.""Don't mention it," said Julian, grinning at her. "It's a real pleasure - and an even greater one to putold Spotty-Face there instead of you. Nice to give the Sticks a dose of their own medicine."Jennifer didn't know what he meant, but the others did, and they chuckled. They made their way backthrough the dark, musty passages of the dungeons, passing many caves, big and small, on the way.
　　They came at last to the flight of steps and went up them into the dazzling sunlight.
　　"Oh!" said Jennifer, breathing in great gulps of the fresh, sea-smelling air. "Oh! This is lovely!
　　Where am I?"
　　"On our island," said George. "And this is our ruined castle. You were brought here last night in aboat. We heard you scream, and that's how we guessed you were being made a prisoner."96
　　They walked to the cliff, and Jennifer was amazed at the way they disappeared down the knottedrope. She was eager to try too, and soon slid down into the cave.
　　"Nice kid, isn't she?" said Julian to George. "My word, she's had even more of an adventure than wehave!"
20.新囚犯
　　新囚犯
　　第二天，朱利安很早就醒了，他顺着绳子爬到悬崖上，想看看斯蒂克夫妇是否在附近。不一会儿，他就看见他们从地牢里走出来，斯蒂克太太脸色苍白，忧心忡忡。
　　“我们必须找到我们的埃德加。”她不停地对斯蒂克先生说，“我敢肯定他不在地牢里，我们在下面把嗓子都喊哑了。”
　　“他应该已经不在岛上了，”斯蒂克先生说，“昨天我们在岛上都找遍了。我想，一定是抢走我们东西的人抓住了埃德加，把他连人带物都用船运走了。”
　　“就是说他们已经把他带到陆地上去了？”斯蒂克太太说，“我们最好划船回去。我想知道到底是谁在这里捣乱，干扰我们的计划。
　　本来一切都很顺利的！”
　　“现在就走吗？”斯蒂克先生犹豫地说，“假设昨天躲在这里的人并没有离开，他们可能会趁我们不在跑到地牢里去的。”
　　“他们不可能在这儿了，”斯蒂克太太坚定地说，“用你的脑子想想，如果埃德加被囚禁在这个小岛上，怎么可能不大声呼救呢？他知道我们能听到他的声音。我告诉你，他一定是被带走了，包括其他所有的东西，真让人恼火！”
　　“好了，好了！”斯蒂克先生咕哝着说，“这个孩子真烦人，总是给我们添麻烦。”
　　“你怎么能那样说可怜的埃德加呢？”斯蒂克太太叫道，“他自己愿意被绑架吗？天知道他正在经历什么折磨。没有我在身边，他会感到害怕和孤独的。”
　　朱利安感到十分厌恶。听到斯蒂克太太这样心疼埃德加，可是在地牢里她却囚禁着一个小女孩——她可比埃德加小得多啊！真是坏透了。
　　“那笨笨怎么办？”斯蒂克先生生气地说，“最好把它留在这儿，守卫地牢的入口，如果你说的是对的，这里就不会有人了。”
　　“嗯，我们把小笨笨留在这儿吧。”斯蒂克太太说着，就动身上船去了。
　　小笨笨看着他们离开，沮丧地把尾巴垂到两腿之间。它转身跑回院子里，垂头丧气地趴在阳光下。它感到很不安，不仅竖起了耳朵，还不停地四处张望。这个奇怪的岛和那些奇怪的声音，都让它感到害怕。
　　朱利安急忙跑回窟窿那里，顺着绳子滑下去，把埃德加吓了一大跳。“大家到洞外去，我要告诉你们我的计划。”朱利安对其他人说，他不想让埃德加听到，大家立刻都出去了。
　　朱利安走后，安妮继续准备早餐，水壶在小炉子上欢快地沸腾着。
　　“听我说，”朱利安说，“斯蒂克夫妇已经划船回陆地上，去找到他们心爱的小宝贝埃德加了。斯蒂克太太很着急，她认为有人把埃德加带走了，她担心这个可怜的孩子会感到害怕和孤独！”
　　“哼！”乔治说，“她怎么不想想那个被绑架的小女孩呢？和埃德加比她不是更可怜吗！真是一个可怕的女人。”
　　“你说得对。”朱利安说，“我是这样计划的：我们现在就到地牢里去，把那个小女孩救出来，带到我们的岩洞里吃早餐。然后我们把她带上船，回陆地去报警，并查明她父母在哪里，打电话告诉他们她已平安。”
　　“那我们怎么处理埃德加呢？”安妮问道。
　　“我有办法！”乔治马上说，“我们救出小女孩的时候把埃德加关进地牢！想想看，如果斯蒂克夫妇发现小女孩不见了，他们会多么吃惊，而且更让他们吃惊的是，他们亲爱的埃德加却被关进了地牢！”
　　“真是个好主意！”安妮说，其他人都大笑起来，纷纷表示赞同。
　　“你留在这儿，安妮，再给小女孩准备些黄油和面包。”朱利安说，他知道安妮不喜欢去地牢。
　　安妮高兴地点点头。
　　“好，我会的。哎呀，我得去把水壶拿下来，不然水就烧干了。”
　　小伙伴们都回到了岩洞。“跟我们来，埃德加。”朱利安说，“你也来，蒂米。”
　　“你们要带我去哪里？”埃德加问道。
　　朱利安说：“一个舒适的好地方，在那里牛不会咬到你。来吧！
　　打起精神。”
　　“汪汪汪！”蒂米叫了起来，它的嘴紧贴着埃德加的大腿，吓得他急忙一跃而起。
　　他们一个接一个地爬上绳子，尽管埃德加非常害怕，而且确信他爬不上去。但是，当下面的蒂米对着他的脚踝狂吠的时候，他便以惊人的速度“嗖嗖”地顺着绳子爬了上去，然后被朱利安从上面一下拉了上去。
　　“快走！”朱利安说，他想抢在斯蒂克夫妇回来之前把一切都搞定。他们越过峭壁，翻过城堡的矮墙，径直来到院子里。
　　“我不去地牢。”埃德加惊恐地说。
　　“去吧。”朱利安假装友好地劝道。
　　“我爸爸妈妈在哪儿？”埃德加不安地环顾着四周问道。
　　“我想他们被那些牛吃掉了，”乔治说，“就是那些朝你‘哞哞’叫、朝你扔东西的牛，你应该猜得到哇。”
　　大家都“咯咯”地笑起来。但埃德加没有笑，他脸色惨白，担心极了。他一点也不喜欢这种冒险。孩子们来到地牢的入口，发现斯蒂克夫妇不仅把地牢入口的石门复归原位，而且还另外堆放了一些沉重的大石块。
　　“看看你爸妈做的好事！”朱利安对埃德加说，“净给别人制造麻烦。来吧，大家动动手，把这些大石块挪开。埃德加，跟我们一起挪，如果你不照做的话，就是自找麻烦。”
　　埃德加和朱利安他们一起挪开大石块，一块又一块，接着，沉重的石门板也被移开了，通向黑暗地牢的台阶露了出来。
　　“那是笨笨！”埃德加指着远处的一丛灌木，突然喊道。臭鬼躲在那里，再次见到蒂米让它恼恐万分。
　　“是臭鬼！”朱利安说，“蒂米，你不能咬它。它的肉不好吃！待在这儿不许动！”
　　对于不能在岛上追逐臭鬼，蒂米感到很不满意，不让它追兔子也就罢了，但至少可以追臭鬼嘛！
　　大家都来到了地牢。朱利安之前的粉笔记号还留在石墙上，所以很容易就找到了通往那个房间的路。去年夏天，他们就是在那个房间里发现了金锭。他们确信那个被绑架的小女孩被关在那里，因为那是地牢里唯一一个有门的房间，而且从外面可以闩上门。
　　他们来到门口。门被闩得死死的，里面没有声音。蒂米抓挠着木门，轻轻地呜咽着，它知道里面有人。
　　“喂，里面有人吗？”朱利安大声喊道，“你还好吗？我们是来救你的。”
　　里面传来一阵窸窸窣窣的声音，好像有人从凳子上站了起来。
　　这时，里面传来微弱的说话声：“你们是谁？快救救我！我被坏人抓起来了，一个人好害怕！”
　　朱利安兴高采烈地喊道：“我们也都是孩子，所以不要害怕，你很快就安全了。”
　　他拉开门闩，一下子把门打开。房间里站着一个小姑娘，一双大眼睛黑溜溜的，脸色惨白。红褐色的鬈发贴在她的脸颊上，她显然之前哭得很伤心，脸上满是泪痕，脏兮兮的。
　　迪克走到她跟前，伸出胳膊搂住了她。“现在一切都好了，”他说，“你安全了，我们会带你回到你妈妈身边。”
　　“我好想见妈妈，我要妈妈……”小女孩说着，眼泪又顺着她的脸颊流了下来，“为什么我会在这里？我不喜欢待在这里。”
　　“哦，这只是你的一次冒险经历。”朱利安说道，“现在冒险结束了——至少，快结束了，只差最后一点点了。我们想请你一起去我们的岩洞里吃早餐。我们有一个很温馨可爱的洞穴。”
　　“哦，是吗？”小女孩揉着眼睛说，“我想和你们一起去，我喜欢你们，但我不喜欢把我带来这里的那些人。”
　　“无论是谁都会不喜欢他们的。”乔治说，“介绍一下，这是我们的蒂米，它也很想和你做朋友。”
　　“好可爱的大狗狗啊！”小女孩说着，伸出双臂亲热地搂住蒂米的脖子，蒂米欢快地舔了舔她的脸。乔治蹲下来高兴地揽着小女孩的肩膀。
　　“你叫什么名字？”她问道。
　　“珍妮弗•玛丽•阿姆斯特朗。”小女孩说，“你呢？”
　　“乔治。”乔治说。小女孩点了点头，她认为乔治是个男孩，因为她不仅穿着牛仔裤，而且跟朱利安和迪克一样，留着鬈曲的短发。
　　其他人一一介绍了自己。然后，她把目光转向埃德加，因为他一直一言不发。
　　“这是雀斑脸。”朱利安说，“他不是我们的朋友，就是他的爸妈带你来这里的，珍妮弗。现在我们把他留在这里，对他的爸妈来说，这将是一个惊喜，你觉得怎样？”
　　埃德加惊慌地大叫着，想要逃走，但朱利安使劲推了他一下，他一个踉跄栽进了房间里。
　　“只有一种方法才可以让你爸妈那样的人知道，做坏事是不会有好结果的，”朱利安冷冷地说，“那就是狠狠地惩罚你们。你们这种人不懂善良仁慈，认为善良仁慈只是软弱和愚蠢。好吧，你就来体验一下珍妮弗经历的折磨吧，这对你有好处，对你的爸妈也有好处！再见！”
　　朱利安从上到下闩好那扇大木门，埃德加惨叫起来，“我会饿死的！”他大声哭喊道。
　　“哦，你不会的，”朱利安说，“里面有很多食物和水，请自便。
　　再说，饿一会儿对你还是有好处的。”
　　“小心那些牛过来吃你哦！”迪克“哞哞”地叫了起来，周围立刻传来了回声，他学得太像了，以至珍妮弗也被吓了一跳。
　　“不要怕，这只是回声。”借助手电筒的光，珍妮弗看见乔治正微笑着对她解释。埃德加在牢房里大声哭闹着，仿佛是个婴儿。
　　“胆小鬼！”朱利安说，“咱们走吧，我迫不及待地想吃早餐了。”
　　“我也是。”珍妮弗说着，把手伸进朱利安的手里，“在那个屋子里我一点也没感觉到饿，但现在饿了。谢谢你们救了我。”
　　“别客气，”朱利安对她咧嘴一笑，“用雀斑脸换下你，是一件非常愉快的事，但对斯蒂克夫妇来说，这叫以牙还牙。”
　　珍妮弗不知道他的意思，但其他人都心领神会地笑了。他们穿过黑暗发霉的地牢通道和许多大大小小的牢房，终于走上台阶，来到耀眼的阳光下。
　　“哦！”珍妮弗深深地吸了一口带着海水味道的新鲜空气，“哦！
　　这感觉太棒了！这是哪儿啊？”
　　“这是我们的岛。”乔治说，“你是昨晚被带到这个废弃的城堡来的，我们听到了你的尖叫声，猜测你被关在地牢里。”
　　他们走到悬崖上，珍妮弗看着他们顺着打结的绳子一个个滑下去不见了，很惊讶，她也想自己试一试。很快，她也顺利地滑到岩洞里去了。
　　“真是个了不起的孩子，”朱利安对乔治说，“你看，她的冒险经历比我们的还惊心动魄呢！”
Chapter Twenty-One A VISIT TO THE POLICE STATION
Chapter Twenty-One A VISIT TO THE POLICE STATION
　　ANNE liked Jennifer very much, and gave her a hug and a kiss. Jennifer looked round the well-furnished cave in amazement and wonder - and then she gave a scream of surprise and joy. Shepointed to Anne's neatly-made bed, on which sat a number of beautiful dolls, and a large teddy-bear.
　　'My dolls!" she said. "Oh, and Teddy, too! Oh, oh, where did you get them? I've missed them so!
　　Oh Josephine and Angela and Rosebud and Marigold, have you missed me?"She flung herself on the dolls. Anne was very interested to hear their names. "I've looked after themwell," she told Jennifer. "They're quite all right.""Oh, thank you," said the little girl, happily. "I do think you're all nice. Oh, I say - what a lovelybreakfast!"
　　It was. Anne had opened a tin of salmon, two tins of peaches, a tin of milk, cut some bread andbutter, and made a big jug of cocoa. Jennifer sat down and began to eat. She was very hungry, and asshe ate, she began to lose her paleness and look rosy and happy.
　　The children talked busily as they ate. Jennifer told them about herself.
　　"I was playing in the garden with my nurse," she said, "and suddenly, when nurse had gone indoorsto fetch something, a man climbed over the wall, threw a shawl round my head, and took me away.
　　We live by the sea, you know, and I soon heard the sound of the waves splashing on the shore, and Iknew I was being put into a boat. I was taken to a big ship, and locked down in a cabin for two days.
　　Then I suppose I was brought here one night. I was so frightened that I screamed."97
　　"That was the scream we heard," said George. "It was lucky we heard it. We had thought there wassmuggling going on here, in our island - we didn't guess it was a case of kidnapping, till we heardyou scream - though we had found your trunk with your clothes and toys.""I don't know how the man got those," said Jennifer. "Maybe one of our maids helped him. There wasone I didn't like at all. She was called Sarah Stick.'
　　"Ah!" said Julian, at once. "That's the one, then! It was Mr. and Mrs. Stick who brought you here.
　　Sarah Stick, your maid, must be some relation of theirs. They must have been in the pay of someoneelse, I should think - someone who had a ship, and could bring you here to hide you.""Jolly good hiding-place, too," said George. "No one but us would ever have found it out."They ate all their breakfast, made some more cocoa, and discussed their future plans.
　　"We'll take our boat and go to the mainland this morning," said Julian. "We'll go straight to thepolice-station with Jennifer. I expect the newspapers are full of her disappearance, and the police willrecognise her at once."
　　"I hope they catch the Sticks," said George. "I hope they won't disappear into thin air as soon as theyhear that Jennifer is found."
　　"Yes - we must warn the police of that," said Julian, thoughtfully. "Better not spread the news abroadtill the Sticks are caught. I wonder where they are.""Let's get the boat now," said Dick. "There's no point in waiting about. Jennifer's parents will bethrilled to know she is safe."
　　"I don't really want to leave this lovely cave," said Jennifer, who was thoroughly enjoying herselfnow. "I wish I lived here, too. Are you going to come back to the island and live here, Julian?""Well, we shall come back for a few days more, I expect," said Julian. "You see, our aunt's home isempty at the moment because she is away ill and our uncle is with her. So we might as well stay onour island till they come back."
　　"Oh, could I come back with you?" begged Jennifer, her small round face alight with joy at thethought of living in a cave on an island with these nice children and their lovely dog. "Oh, do let me!
　　I would so like it. And I do so love Timmy.""I don't expect your parents would let you, especially after you've just been kidnapped," said Julian.
　　"But you can ask them, if you like."
　　98
　　They all went to the boat and got in. Julian pushed off. George steered the boat in and out of therocks. They saw the wreck, which interested Jenny very much indeed. She badly wanted to stop, butthe others thought they ought to get to land as quickly as possible.
　　Soon they were near the beach. Alf, the fisher-boy was there. He saw them and waved. He ran to helpthem to pull in their boat.
　　"I was coming out in my boat this morning," he said. "Your father's back, Master George. But notyour mother. She's getting better, they say, and will be back in a week's time.""Well, what's my father come back for?" demanded George, in surprise.
　　"He got worried because nobody answered the telephone," explained Alf. "He came down and askedme where you all were. I didn't tell him, of course. I kept your secret. But I was just coming out towarn you this morning. He got back last night - and wasn't he wild? No one there to give him anyfood - all the house upside down and half the things gone! He's at the police station now.""Golly!" said George. "That's just where we are going too! We shall meet him there. Oh dear, I dohope he won't be in an awful temper. You just can't do anything with my father when he's cross.""Come on!" said Julian. "It's a good thing, in a way, that your father is here, George - we can explaineverything to him and to the police at the same time."They left Alf, who looked very surprised to see Jennifer with the others. He couldn't make out whereshe had come from. Certainly she had not started out to the island with them - but she had come backin their boat. How was that? It seemed very mysterious to Alf.
　　The children arrived at the police station and marched in, much to the surprise of the policeman there.
　　"Hallo!" he said. "What's the matter? Been doing a burglary, or something, and come to own up?""Listen!" said George, suddenly, hearing a loud voice in the room next to theirs. "That's Father'svoice!"
　　She darted to the door. The policeman called to her, shocked. "Now don't you go in there. TheInspector's in there. Come over here special, he has, and mustn't be interrupted."But George had flung open the door and gone inside. Her father turned and saw her. He rose to hisfeet. "George! Where have you been? How dare you go away like this and leave the house 99and everything! It's been robbed right and left! I've just been telling the Inspector about all the thingsthat have been stolen."
　　"Don't worry, Father," said George. "Really don't worry. We've found them all. How's Mother?""Better, much better," said her father, still looking amazed and angry. "Thank goodness I can go backand tell her where you are. She kept asking me about you all, and I had to keep saying you were allright, so as not to worry her - but I hadn't any idea what was happening to you or where you hadgone. I feel very displeased with you. Where were you?""On the island," said George, looking rather sulky, as she often did when her father was angry withher. "Julian will tell you all about it."Julian came in, followed by Dick, Anne, Jennifer and Timothy. The Inspector, a big, clever-lookingman with dark eyes under shaggy eyebrows, looked at them all closely. When he saw Jennifer, hestared hard - and then suddenly rose to his feet.
　　"What's your name, little girl?" he said.
　　"Jennifer Mary Armstrong," said Jenny, in a surprised voice.
　　"Bless us all!" said the Inspector, in a startled voice. "Here's the child the whole country is lookingfor - and she walks in here as cool as a cucumber! Lands sakes, where did she come from?""What do you mean?" said George's father, looking surprised. "What child is the whole countrylooking for? I haven't read the papers for some days.""Then you don't know about little Jenny Armstrong being kidnapped?" said the Inspector, sittingdown and pulling Jenny near him. "She's the daughter of Harry Armstrong, the millionaire, youknow. Well, somebody kidnapped her and wants a hundred thousand pounds ransom for her. Myword, we've combed the country for her - and here she is, as merry as you please. Well, I'm blessed -this is the queerest thing I ever knew. Where have you been, little Missy?""On the island," said Jenny. "Julian - you tell it all."So Julian told the whole story from beginning to end. The policeman from outside came in, and tooknotes down as he spoke. Everyone listened in amazement. As for George's father, his eyes nearly fellout of his head. What adventures these children did have, to be sure and how well they managedeverything!
　　100
　　"And do you happen to know who was the owner of the ship that brought little Miss Jenny along- the one that sent a boat off to the wreck and put her there for the Sticks to take?" asked theInspector.
　　"No," said Julian. "All we heard was that the Roamer was coming that night.""A-HA!" said the Inspector, with great satisfaction in his voice. "Aha and oho! We know the Roamerall right - a ship we've been watching for some time - owned by somebody we're very, verysuspicious of - we think he's dabbling in a whole lot of shady deals. Now this is very good newsindeed. The thing is - where are the Sticks - and how can we catch them red-handed, now you've gotMiss Jenny out of their clutches? They'll probably deny everything.""I know how we could catch them," said Julian, quickly. "We've left their nasty son, Edgar, locked inthe same dungeon where they put Jenny. If only one of us could pass the word to the Sticks, that thatis where Edgar is, they'd go back to the island all right, and go right into the dungeons - so if youfound them there, it wouldn't be much good them denying that they don't know anything about theisland, and have never been there."
　　"That would certainly make things a lot easier," said the Inspector. He pressed a bell and anotherpoliceman came into the room. The Inspector gave him a full description of Mr. and Mrs. Stick, andtold him to watch the countryside round about, and report when they were found.
　　"Then, Master Julian, you might like to go and have a little conversation with them about their son,Edgar," said the Inspector, smiling. "If they do go back to the island, we shall follow them, and get allthe evidence we want. Thank you for your very great help. Now we must telephone to Miss Jenny'sparents and tell them she is safe."
　　"She can come back to Kirrin Cottage with us," said George's father, still looking rather dazed at allthat had happened. "'I've got Joanna, our old cook, to come back for a while to put things straight, sothere will be someone there to see to the children. They must all come back.""Well, Father," said George, firmly, "we will come back just for today, but we plan to spend anotherweek on Kirrin Island till Mother comes back. She said we could, and we are having such a fine timethere. Let Joanna stay at Kirrin Cottage and keep it in order and get it ready for Mother when shecomes home - she won't want the bother of looking after us too. We can look after ourselves on theisland."
　　"I certainly think these children deserve a reward for the good work they have done," remarked theInspector, and that settled the matter.
　　101
　　"Very well," said George's father, "you can all go off to the island again - but you must be back whenyour Mother returns, George."
　　"Of course I will," said George. "I badly want to see Mother. But home isn't nice without her. I wouldrather be on our island."
　　"And I want to be there, too," said Jenny, unexpectedly. "Ask my parents to come to Kirrin, please -so that I can ask them if I can go with the other children.""I'll do my best," said the Inspector, grinning at the five children. They liked him very much.
　　George's father stood up.
　　"Come along!" he said. "I want my lunch. All this has made me feel hungry. We'll go and see ifJoanna has got anything for us."
　　Off they all went, talking nineteen to the dozen, making George's poor father feel quite bewildered.
　　He always seemed to get into the middle of some adventure when these children were about!
21.去警察局报警
　　去警察局报警
　　安妮非常喜欢珍妮弗，她拥抱了她，又看又亲的。珍妮弗惊奇地环视着这个陈设齐全的洞穴，突然发出一声惊喜的尖叫，她指着安妮整洁的床——床上放着那几个漂亮的洋娃娃和一只大泰迪熊。
　　“我的洋娃娃！”她说，“哦，还有我的泰迪熊！你从哪儿弄来的？我想死它们了！哦，约瑟芬，安吉拉，玫瑰花，万寿菊，你们想我了吗？”
　　她扑向洋娃娃，安妮觉得它们的名字很有意思。“我把它们照顾得很好，”她告诉珍妮弗，“它们都很听话。”
　　“哦，谢谢你，”小女孩高兴地说，“你们对我太好了。哦，我的天哪，多么丰盛的早餐啊！”
　　早餐的确很丰盛。安妮打开了一罐鲑鱼，两罐桃子，一罐牛奶，切了一些面包和黄油，做了一大壶热可可。珍妮弗坐下来开始吃饭，她饿坏了，吃着吃着，她的脸就由苍白变成了玫瑰色，满脸都是快乐。
　　孩子们一边吃一边聊着天，珍妮弗向他们讲述了自己的遭遇。
　　“那天，我和保姆在花园里玩，”她说，“保姆进屋去取东西时，一个男人突然翻墙进来，用一条围巾蒙住我的头，把我带走了。我们住在海边，后来我听到海浪拍打海岸的声音，我知道自己被放到了一条船上。不久，我又被带到一艘大轮船上，在船舱里被锁了两天。然后昨天晚上我被带到这里，当他们摘下蒙着我的围巾时，我吓得尖叫起来。”
　　“我们听到了你的尖叫声。”乔治说，“一开始，我们还以为在这个岛上有走私活动呢，直到听见你的尖叫声，又想到我们找到的一个箱子里有你的衣服和玩具，才猜出应该就是绑架。”
　　“我不知道那些人是怎么弄到我的衣服的，”珍妮弗说，“也许是我家的一个女仆帮助了他。有个女仆我一点都不喜欢，她叫莎拉•斯蒂克。”
　　“啊！”朱利安马上说，“这就对了！是斯蒂克夫妇带你来的，你家的女仆莎拉•斯蒂克肯定是他们的亲戚。我想，他们一定是别人出钱雇来的，这个雇主有一艘船，可以把你带到这里藏起来。”
　　“这是个不错的藏身之处，”乔治说，“除了我们，没有人会发现。”
　　他们把早餐吃得一干二净，又喝了些热可可，讨论了接下来的计划。
　　“今天上午我们就划船回陆地，”朱利安说，“然后和珍妮弗直接去警察局。我猜报纸上到处都是她失踪的消息，警察一定会立刻认出她来的。”
　　“我希望他们能抓住斯蒂克夫妇。”乔治说，“但愿他们听到找到珍妮弗的消息后，不会立刻消失得无影无踪。”
　　“是啊，我们必须提醒警察，”朱利安沉思着说，“在抓住斯蒂克夫妇之前，最好不要把这个消息传出去。也不知道他们现在在哪儿。”
　　“我们现在就上船吧，”迪克说，“别再等下去了，珍妮弗的父母知道她安然无恙肯定会激动不已。”
　　“这会儿我真不想离开这个可爱的洞穴，”珍妮弗说，“真希望我也能住在这里。你们之后还会回岛上住吗，朱利安？”
　　“哦，我想我们还会再回来住几天。”朱利安说，“是这样的，我们婶婶家里现在没人，因为她生病住院了，叔叔在照顾她，所以他们回来之前，我们还是得住在岛上。”
　　“哦，我能和你们一起回来吗？”珍妮弗央求着，她那圆圆的小脸兴奋得闪闪发光，因为和这些有趣的孩子，还有他们可爱的狗狗一起住在小岛上的岩洞里真是太有意思了，“好吗？好吗？让我来吧！我很喜欢这里，也很爱蒂米。”
　　朱利安说：“我想你的父母不会允许你这么做的，尤其是你刚刚被绑架过，但你可以试着恳求他们。”
　　他们走到海边上了船。朱利安用力把船推离了岸边，乔治巧妙地绕过暗礁。他们看见了沉船，珍妮弗对沉船很感兴趣，想停下来看看，但其他人一致认为他们应该尽快回到陆地上去。
　　很快，他们就靠近了海滩。渔家男孩阿尔夫正好在那儿，他看见了他们，连忙跑过去帮他们把船拉上岸。
　　“我是今天早上来的。”他说，“你爸爸回来了，乔治少爷。但你妈妈没回来。他们说她正在好转，一周后就会回来。”
　　“我爸爸回来干什么？”乔治惊奇地问。
　　“他很担心，因为家里一直没人接电话。”阿尔夫解释说，“他来问我你们都去哪儿了，当然，我没告诉他，因为我要保守秘密。所以今天一大早我就来给你们报信了。他是昨晚回来的，看到家里的情况简直要发疯了——屋里被翻得乱七八糟，一半的东西都不见了！他现在正在警察局呢。”
　　“天哪！”乔治说，“那正是我们要去的地方！我们得在那儿跟爸爸见面了。但愿他不会太生气，因为他大发雷霆的时候，根本没办法和他好好说话。”
　　“走吧，乔治，”朱利安说，“你爸爸在警察局也是件好事，到时候我们就可以同时向他和警察解释这一切了。”
　　他们和阿尔夫挥手告别。看到珍妮弗和他们在一起，阿尔夫显得很惊讶，他弄不清她是从哪儿来的，只记得当时这个小女孩并没有和他们一起去岛上，但她却坐着他们的船回来了。到底是怎么回事呢？这对阿尔夫来说是个谜。
　　孩子们昂首阔步地走进警察局，让那里的警察很是惊讶。
　　“嘿！”警察问道，“怎么了？出了什么事？是干了一桩盗窃案，还是怎么的？你们是来自首的吗？”
　　“听！”乔治突然听到隔壁的房间里传来一个熟悉的大嗓门，“那是爸爸的声音！”
　　她一个箭步冲到门口，警察吃了一惊，连忙叫住她，对她吼道：“不许进去，巡查官正在屋里呢，任何人不许打扰他。”
　　但乔治不管不顾猛地推开门，闯了进去。她父亲转过头来看见了她，立刻站了起来，“乔治！你去哪儿了？你怎么能丢下家里的一切，说走就走呢？家里被人洗劫一空了！我刚把丢失的东西报给巡查官。”
　　“别担心，爸爸，”乔治说，“我们找到了所有的东西。妈妈怎么样了？”
　　“好多了。”她爸爸说，但仍然显得又惊讶又生气，“谢天谢地，我终于可以回去告诉她你们都平安无事了。她总向我打听你们的情况，我骗她说你们都很好，没让她担心。但我不知道你们出了什么事，也不知道你们去了哪里，这让我很恼火。你们到底去哪儿了？”
　　“去了岛上。”乔治生气地回答，每次她爸爸一发脾气她都是这样，“朱利安会告诉你的。”
　　朱利安走了进来，后面跟着迪克、安妮、珍妮弗和蒂米。巡查官是一位身材高大看上去很聪明的人，他粗黑的眉毛下长着一双黑眼睛。他仔细地挨个打量着他们，可当他看到珍妮弗时，他的眼睛定住了，突然站了起来。
　　“小姑娘，你叫什么名字？”他问道。
　　“珍妮弗•玛丽•阿姆斯特朗。”珍妮弗略显得紧张地回答道。
　　“老天爷保佑！”巡查官吃惊地说，“这就是全国上下都在寻找的孩子，她却像没事人一样走了进来！快告诉我，你是从哪儿来的？”
　　“你说什么？”乔治的父亲惊讶地说，“全国都在找孩子？我好几天没看报纸了。”
　　“你不知道小珍妮弗•阿姆斯特朗被绑架了吗？”巡查官问道。他坐下来把珍妮弗拉到他身边，“她是百万富翁哈里•阿姆斯特朗的女儿。有人绑架了她，索要十万英镑的赎金。我的天，我们为找她搜遍了整个国家。现在她回来了，还高高兴兴的，并且安然无恙。天哪，这是我遇见的最奇怪的事情。你到哪儿去了，小姑娘？”
　　“岛上。”珍妮弗说，“朱利安会把这一切告诉你们的。”
　　于是，朱利安把整个故事从头到尾讲了一遍，外面进来一位警察边听边记录。大家听了都很惊讶，至于乔治的爸爸更是听得目瞪口呆。这些孩子们经历了那么多危险的事，而且他们每次都把危险解决得很漂亮！
　　“你们知道带走小珍妮弗的那艘轮船的主人是谁吗？他就是那个降下一艘小船把小珍妮弗带到沉船上，与斯蒂克夫妇接头的人。”巡查官问道。
　　“不知道，”朱利安说，“我们只听埃德加说他爸妈那天晚上要去见一个叫隆姆的人。”
　　“啊哈！”巡查官满意地说，“真的是隆姆。这艘船我们已经监视有一段时间了，船主是一个非常可疑的人，我们认为他涉嫌很多非法的勾当。这真是个好消息。可现在斯蒂克夫妇在哪里？我们怎么才能抓住他们呢？你们已经解救出了小珍妮弗，他们可能会否认他们参与了这起绑架案。”
　　“我知道怎样才能抓住他们。”朱利安急忙说，“我们把他们的儿子埃德加关在了珍妮弗被关过的那个地牢里。假如有人告诉斯蒂克夫妇埃德加关在那里，他们就会回到岛上，并且直奔地牢。如果你们在那里当场抓住他们，他们就不能狡辩说他们不了解岛上的情况，或者从没到过那里了。”
　　“这确实会使抓捕容易得多。”巡查官说着按了一下铃，另一个警察走进了房间。巡查官向他详细描述了斯蒂克夫妇的情况，并叫他留意镇子周围的情况，一旦发现斯蒂克夫妇立即报告。
　　“那么，朱利安少爷，就由你去告诉他们埃德加的情况，好吗？”巡查官微笑着说，“如果他们真的回到岛上，我们就会跟踪他们，得到有力证据后抓到他们。另外，我得谢谢你们的大力帮助，现在我们必须打电话给珍妮弗的父母，告诉他们她很安全。”
　　“她可以暂时待在科林庄园，”乔治的父亲说，“我请了我们的老厨师乔安娜回来，她会把家里收拾好，并且妥善照顾孩子们的。接下来，他们都得跟我回家。”
　　“好吧，爸爸，”乔治语气坚定地说，“今天我们可以回家，但之后我们还要在科林岛上再待一个星期，直到妈妈回来——这是她之前答应过我们的。让乔安娜待在科林庄园，把事情安排好，迎接妈妈回来吧，这样，她就不用分心照顾我们了，在岛上我们自己能照顾好自己。”
　　“我认为这些孩子应该得到奖励，毕竟他们可是立了大功。”巡查官说。
　　“好吧，”乔治的父亲说，“乔治，你们可以回到岛上去，但妈妈出院后你们必须回来。”
　　“当然了，”乔治说，“我非常想见妈妈，但是没有她，家里就变得特别冷清，我宁愿待在我们的岛上。”
　　“我也想去。”珍妮弗突然说，“请叫我爸爸妈妈去科林庄园接我吧，这样我就可以问问他们我能不能和其他哥哥姐姐一起去科林岛了。”
　　“我会尽力的。”巡查官说着，对五个孩子咧着嘴直笑。孩子们非常喜欢他。乔治的父亲站了起来。“走吧，”他说，“我想吃午饭，这会儿突然感到饿了。我们去看看乔安娜有没有给我们做什么好吃的。”
　　在回去的路上，孩子们一边走一边喋喋不休地说个不停，这使乔治的父亲感到十分困惑。当他和这些孩子们在一起的时候，似乎总是会卷入某些冒险之中。
Chapter Twenty-Two BACK TO KIRRIN ISLAND!
Chapter Twenty-Two BACK TO KIRRIN ISLAND!
　　SOON everyone was at Kirrin Cottage. Joanna, the old cook they had had before, gave them a goodwelcome, and listened to their adventures in astonishment, getting the lunch ready all the while.
　　It was while they were having lunch that Julian, looking out of the window, suddenly caught sight ofa figure he knew very well - someone skulking along behind the hedge.
　　"Old Pa Stick!" he said, and jumped up. "I'll go after him. Stay here, everyone."He went out of the house, ran round a corner and came face to face with Mr. Stick.""Do you want to know where Edgar is?" said Julian mysteriously.
　　Mr. Stick looked startled. He stared at Julian not knowing what to say.
　　"He's down in the dungeons, locked in that cave," said Julian, even more mysteriously.
　　"You don't know nothin' about Edgar," said Mr. Stick. "Where have you been? Didn't you go home?""Never you mind," said Julian. "But if you want to find Edgar - look in that cave!"102
　　Mr. Stick gave the boy a glare and left him. Julian hurried indoors and rang up the police station.
　　He felt sure that Mr. Stick would tell Mrs. Stick what he had said, and that Mrs. Stick would insist ongoing back to the island to see if what he had said was true. So all that needed to be done was for thepolice to keep a watch on the boats along the shore and see when the Sticks left.
　　The children finished their dinner, and Uncle Quentin announced that he must return to his wife, whowould want to know his news. "I'll tell her you are having a fine time on the island," he said,"and we can tell her all the extraordinary details when she returns home, better."He left in a car, and the children wondered whether they might now return to their island or not.
　　But they decided to wait a little, for they did not know what to do with Jennifer.
　　Very soon a large car drove up and stopped outside the gate of Kirrin Cottage. Out jumped a tall manwith dark red hair, and a pretty woman. "They must be your father and mother, Jenny," said Julian.
　　They were - and Jennifer got so many hugs and kisses that she quite lost her breath. She had to tellher story again and again, and her father could not thank Julian and the others enough for all they haddone.
　　"Ask me for any reward you like!" he said, "and you can have it. I shall never, never be able to tellyou how grateful I am to you for rescuing our little Jenny.""Oh - we don't want anything, thank you," said Julian, politely. "We enjoyed it all very much.
　　We like adventures."
　　"Ah, but you must tell me something you want!" said Jenny's father.
　　Julian glanced round at the others. He knew that none of them wanted a reward. Jenny nudged himhard and nodded her head vigorously. Julian laughed.
　　"Well," he said, "there is one thing we'd all like very much.""It's granted before you ask it!" said Jenny's father.
　　"Will you let Jenny come and spend a week with us on our island?" said Julian. Jenny gave a squealand pressed Julian's arm very hard between her two small hands.
　　Jenny's parents looked rather taken-aback. "Well," said her father, "well - she's just been kidnapped,you know - and we don't feel inclined to let her out of our sight at the moment -and..."
　　103
　　"You promised Julian you'd grant what he asked, you promised, Daddy," said Jenny, urgently.
　　"Oh please do let me. I've always wanted to live on an island. And this one has got a perfectlymarvellous cave, and a wonderful ruined castle, and the dungeons where I was kept, and -""And we take Timothy, our dog, with us," said Julian. "See what a big powerful fellow he is -nobody could come to much harm with Timmy about - could they, Tim?""Woof!" said Timothy, in his deepest voice.
　　"Well, you can go, Jenny, on one condition," said the little girl's father at last, "and that is that I andyour mother, come over tomorrow and spend the day on the island, to see that everything is all rightfor you."
　　"Oh, thank you, thank you, Daddy!" cried Jenny, and danced round the room in delight. A wholeweek on the island with these new friends of hers, and Timmy the dog! What could be lovelier?
　　"Jenny can stay here the night, can't she?' said George. "You'll be staying at the hotel, I suppose?"Soon Jenny's parents left and went to the police station to get all the details of the kidnapping.
　　The children went to see if Joanna was going to make cakes for tea.
　　Just about tea-time there came a knocking at the door. A large policeman stood outside.
　　"Is Master Julian here?" he said. "Oh, you're the boy we want, sir. The Sticks have just left for theisland in their boat, and we've got ours on the beach to follow. But we don't think we know the wayin and out of those hidden rocks that lie all round Kirrin Island. Could you or Miss Georgina guideus, do you think?"
　　"I'm Master George, not Miss Georgina," said George, in a cold voice.
　　"Sorry, sir," said the policeman, with a grin. "Well, could you come too?""We'll all come!" said Dick, jumping up. "I want to go back to the dear old island and sleep in ourcave again tonight. Why should we miss a single night? We can fetch Jenny's people tomorrow in ourown boat. We'll all come."
　　The policeman was a little doubtful about the arrangement, but the children insisted, and as there wasno time to waste, they all ended in crowding into the two boats, with three big policemen, George andJulian leading the way in their own boat. Timmy lay down at George's feet as usual.
　　George guided the boat as cleverly as ever, and soon they landed in the usual little sandy cove.
　　The Sticks had evidently gone round by the wreck as usual, and landed on the rockier part.
　　104
　　"Now, no noise," said Julian, warningly. They all went quietly towards the ruin, and came into thecourtyard. There was no sign of the Sticks.
　　"We'll go down underground," said Julian. "I've got my torch. I expect the Sticks are down therealready, letting out dear Edgar."
　　They went down the steps into the dark dungeons. Anne went too, this time, holding on to the handof one of the big policemen. They moved quietly through the long, dark, winding passages.
　　They came at last to the door of the cave in which they had imprisoned Edgar. It was still bolted atthe top and bottom!
　　"Look!" said Julian, in a whisper, shining his torch on to the door. "The Sticks haven't been downhere yet."
　　"Sh!" said George, as Timmy growled softly. "There's someone coming. Hide! It's the Sticks, Iexpect."
　　They all hid behind the wall that ran near by. They could hear footsteps coming nearer, and then thevoice of Mrs. Stick raised in anger.
　　"If my Edgar's locked in there, I'll have something to say about it! Locking up a poor innocent boylike that. I don't understand it. If he's there, where's the girl? You answer me that. Where's the girl?
　　It's my belief that the boss has done some double-crossing to do us out of our share of the money.
　　Didn't he say that he'd give us a thousand pounds if we kept Jenny Armstrong for a week? Now Ithink he must have sent someone to this island, played tricks on us, taken the girl himself and lockedup our Edgar."
　　"You may be right, Clara," said Mr. Stick, his voice coming nearer and nearer. "But how did this boyJulian know where Edgar was? There's a lot I don't understand about all this."Now the Sticks were right at the door of the cave, with Stinker at their heels. Stinker smelt the othersin hiding and whined in fear. Mr. Stick kicked him.
　　"Stop it! It's enough to hear our own voices echoing away all round without your whines too!"Mrs. Stick was calling out loudly: "Edgar! Are you there? Edgar!""Ma! Yes, I'm here!" yelled Edgar. "Let me out, quick! I'm proper scared. Let me out!"Mrs. Stick undid the bolts at once and flung open the door. By the light of the lantern in the cave shesaw Edgar. He ran to her, half-crying.
　　105
　　"Who put you here?" demanded Mrs. Stick. "You tell your Pa and he'll knock their heads off, won'tyou, Pa? Putting a poor frightened child into a dark cave like this. It's a wicked thing to do!"Suddenly the Stick family had the fright of their lives - for a large policeman stepped out of theshadows, torch in one hand and notebook in the other!
　　"Ah!" said the policeman, in a deep voice. "You're right, Clara Stick. To shut up a poor frightenedchild in that cave is a wicked thing to do - and that's what you did, isn't it? You put Jenny Armstrongthere! She's only a little girl. This boy of yours knew he wasn't coming to any harm - but that littlegirl was scared to death!"
　　Mrs. Stick stood there, opening and shutting her mouth like a goldfish, not finding a word to say.
　　Mr. Stick squealed like a rat caught in a corner.
　　"We're copped! It's a trap, that's it. We're copped!"Edgar began to cry, sobbing like a four-year-old. The other children felt disgusted with him. TheSticks suddenly caught sight of all the children when Julian switched on his torch.
　　"Snakes alive, there's all the children - and there's Jenny Armstrong too!" said Mr. Stick, in a tone ofthe greatest amazement. "What's all this? What's happening? Who shut up Edgar?""We'll tell you the answers when we get to the police station," said the big policeman. "Now, are youcoming quietly?"
　　The Sticks went quietly, Edgar sobbing away to himself. He imagined his mother and father inprison, and he himself sent to a hard and difficult school, not allowed to see his mother for years.
　　Not that that would matter, for the Sticks, both mother and father, were no good to Edgar, and hadtaught him nothing but bad things. There might be a chance for the wretched boy if he were keptaway from them, and set a good example instead of a bad one.
　　"We shan't be coming back with you," said Julian, politely, to the policeman. "We're staying here thenight. You could go back in the Sticks' boat. They know the way all right. Take their dog with you.
　　There he is - Stinker, we call him." Then he added, "I guess your colleagues could follow in thepolice boat!"
　　The Sticks' boat was found and the policeman, the two grown-up Sticks and Edgar got in. Stinkerjumped in too, glad to get away from the glare of Timothy's green eyes.
　　Julian pushed the boat out. "Good-bye!" he called, and the other children waved goodbye, too.
　　"Good-bye, Mr. Stick, don't go kidnapping any more children. Good-bye, Mrs. Stick, look after 106Edgar better, in case he gets kidnapped again! Good-bye, Spotty-Face, try and be a better boy!
　　Good-bye, Stinker, do get a bath as soon as possible. Good-bye!"The policemen grinned and waved. The Sticks said not a word, nor did they wave. They sat sullenand angry, trying to work out in their minds what had happened to make things end up like this.
　　The boats rounded a high rock and were soon out of sight. "Hurrah!" said Dick. "They've gone -gone for ever! We've got our island to ourselves at last. Come on, Jenny, we'll show you all over it!
　　What a lovely time we're going to have."
　　They raced away, happy and carefree, five children and a dog, alone on an island they loved.
　　And we will leave them there to enjoy their week's happiness. They really do deserve it!
　　THE END
22.重返科林岛
　　重返科林岛
　　大家很快就回到了科林庄园。他们的老厨师乔安娜对他们的归来表示热烈的欢迎，她一边兴致勃勃地听着他们的冒险故事，一边做好了午饭。
　　就在他们吃午饭的时候，朱利安无意中朝窗外看了看，突然看到一个熟悉的身影，那人正在树篱后面鬼鬼祟祟地走着。
　　“斯蒂克先生！”他从座位上跳了起来，“我得去追上他，你们留在这里等我。”
　　他走出房子，跑过一个拐角，故意和斯蒂克先生打了个照面。
　　“你想知道埃德加在哪儿吗？”朱利安神神秘秘地说。
　　斯蒂克先生吓了一跳，他直勾勾地盯着朱利安，不知说什么好。
　　“他在废弃城堡的地牢里。”朱利安说话的声音更低了。
　　“你怎么可能知道埃德加的情况？”斯蒂克先生说，“你不是老早就回自己家了吗？”
　　“信不信由你。”朱利安说，“如果你真想找到埃德加，就去那个地牢看看吧！”
　　斯蒂克先生瞪了朱利安一眼就离开了。朱利安急忙跑进屋，给警察局打了电话。他确信斯蒂克先生会把他的话告诉斯蒂克太太，到时候，斯蒂克太太肯定会坚持要回岛上看看他说的是不是真的。
　　因此，需要做的就是让警察监视沿岸的船只，看看斯蒂克夫妇什么时候去岛上。
　　孩子们吃完饭，昆廷叔叔说他要立即动身，回到孩子们的婶婶身边去，因为她在急切等待他的消息。“我要告诉她，你们在岛上过得很愉快。”他说，“等她出院回家后，你们再把所有惊心动魄的细节都告诉她。”
　　昆廷叔叔坐着车离开了，孩子们不知道他们现在是否可以回岛上去。他们决定再等等，因为他们不知道该如何安排珍妮弗。
　　不一会儿，一辆大轿车快速驶来，停在科林庄园门外。一位深红头发的高个子先生和一位漂亮的女士跳下车，直奔科林庄园的门前。
　　“珍妮弗，他们是你的父母吧。”朱利安说。
　　他们正是珍妮弗的父母！当见到珍妮弗时，他们又抱又亲，亲得她都快喘不过气来了。她一遍又一遍地讲着她的故事，她的爸爸对朱利安和其他孩子所做的一切感激不尽。
　　“说吧，我的小恩人们，你们想要什么？”他说，“只要你们说出名字，我都会答应。你们救了我们家小珍妮弗，我对你们的感激之情无法言表。”
　　“我们什么都不要，谢谢。”朱利安礼貌地说，“救了珍妮弗让我们感到很开心，因为我们热爱冒险。”
　　“哦，但请你们必须告诉我你们想要什么！不然我真的过意不去。”珍妮弗的爸爸说。
　　朱利安回头看了看其他人，他知道他们谁也不想要奖赏。珍妮弗轻轻推了他一下，用力点了点头，朱利安笑了，他明白了珍妮弗的意思。
　　“嗯，”他说，“有一样东西我们都很喜欢。”
　　“在你说出来之前，我已经答应了！”珍妮弗的爸爸真诚地说。
　　“你能让珍妮弗来和我们一起在科林岛上待一个星期吗？”朱利安说。珍妮弗欢呼着尖叫了一声，两只小手紧紧地抓着朱利安的胳膊。
　　珍妮弗的父母看起来相当吃惊。“这……这……”她父亲明显有些不知所措，“你们知道，她刚刚被绑架过……我们现在不想让她离开我们的视线……而且……”
　　“你答应过朱利安满足他一切要求的，你答应过的，爸爸！”珍妮弗急切地说，“让我去吧，我真的很想住在岛上。那里有一个非常奇妙的洞穴，一座废弃的城堡，还有关押我的地牢。”
　　“我们会带着我们的大狗蒂米，”朱利安说，“你看，它是个多么强壮的家伙，有蒂米在，谁也无法伤害我们，对吧，蒂米？”
　　“汪！”蒂米既高兴又一本正经地叫了一声。
　　“好吧，珍妮弗，你可以去，但有一个条件，”小女孩的爸爸最后说，“那就是我和你妈妈明天和你们一起去岛上，看看你们是不是一切都好。”
　　“哦，谢谢爸爸！”珍妮弗叫道，高兴得在房间里跳了起来。和自己的新朋友，还有大狗蒂米在岛上待上整整一周！还有什么比这更令人开心的呢？
　　“珍妮弗在这儿过夜可以吗？”乔治说，“我想你们要去住宾馆吧。”
　　不一会儿，珍妮弗的父母就到警察局了解绑架的全部细节去了。孩子们去问乔安娜能否做些茶点吃。
　　下午茶的时候，有人敲门，一个大块头的警察站在外面。
　　“你是朱利安先生吗？”他问道，“噢，先生，我们就是要找你。
　　斯蒂克夫妇刚刚划船去了岛上，我们的小船准备跟踪他们，却不知道如何绕过科林岛周围的暗礁，想请你或者乔治娜小姐给我们带个路。”
　　“我是乔治少爷，不是乔治娜小姐。”乔治冷冷地说。
　　“对不起，先生，”警察笑着说，“那么，能请你也一起去吗？”
　　“我们都去！”迪克说着跳了起来，“今晚我就想回到亲爱的科林岛，在我们的岩洞里睡上一觉，我们为什么要错过一个夜晚呢？明天我们可以再去接一趟珍妮弗的爸爸妈妈。”
　　警察对这个安排有些犹豫，但孩子们非常坚持。因为时间紧迫，他们和三个高大的警察挤上了两条船，乔治和朱利安划着他们自己的船在前面带路，蒂米像往常一样躺在乔治的脚边。
　　乔治灵活巧妙地引导着小船，不久他们就来到了小海湾。斯蒂克夫妇显然是绕过沉船，在礁石更多的地方上了岸。
　　“现在，别出声！”朱利安警告说。他们悄悄地向废弃的城堡走去。在院子里，他们没见到斯蒂克夫妇的影子。
　　“我们到下面去。”朱利安说，“我带了手电筒，我想斯蒂克夫妇已经在那儿了，应该正在把他们的埃德加放出来。”
　　他们走下台阶，来到黑暗的地牢。安妮虽然这次也去了，但她始终紧紧地抓着一个警察的手。他们悄悄地穿过长长的、黑暗的、曲折的通道，终于来到了他们囚禁埃德加的房间门口。木门依然锁得结结实实！
　　“看！”朱利安用手电筒照着木门说，“斯蒂克夫妇还没到这里来过。”这时蒂米低声咆哮起来。
　　“嘘！”乔治说，“有人来了，我想是斯蒂克夫妇，快隐蔽！”
　　他们迅速躲到了附近的墙后面。脚步声越来越近了，接着是斯蒂克太太愤怒的声音。
　　“如果我的埃德加真的被锁在了里面，我可不能就这么算了！他们怎么能把一个无辜可怜的孩子这样关起来呢？我不明白。如果埃德加在里面的话，那小姑娘在哪儿呢？你回答我呀，小姑娘在哪里？我想肯定是老大做了手脚，把我们的那份钱给骗走了。他不是说过，如果我们把珍妮弗•阿姆斯特朗扣留一个星期，他就给我们1000英镑吗？现在我知道了，他一定是派人来到这个岛上，亲自带走了小姑娘，又把我们的埃德加关了起来。”
　　“也许你说得对，克拉拉。”斯蒂克先生说，他的声音越来越近了，“可是，这个叫朱利安的孩子怎么知道埃德加在哪儿呢？这件事我有很多不明白的地方。”
　　现在斯蒂克夫妇到了洞口，身后跟着臭鬼。臭鬼嗅到了人的气味，吓得叫了起来，斯蒂克先生踢了它一脚。
　　“别叫了！听见我们自己的声音在四周回响就够受的了，你还添乱！”
　　斯蒂克太太大声喊道：“埃德加！你在里面吗？埃德加！”
　　“妈妈！我在里面！”埃德加叫道，“快让我出去！我好害怕啊！”
　　斯蒂克太太立即拉开门闩，使劲推开了门。借着洞里灯笼的光亮，她看见了埃德加正哭着跑向她。
　　“是谁把你关在这里的？”斯蒂克太太问，“快告诉你爸爸，他会把他们的脑袋拧下来。把一个受了惊吓的可怜孩子关进这样一个黑暗的地牢里，这是人干的事吗？！”
　　突然，斯蒂克一家吓了一跳，因为一个大个子警察从阴影中走了出来，一手拿着手电筒，一手拿着笔记本！
　　警察严肃低沉地说：“克拉拉，你说得没错，把一个受了惊吓的可怜孩子关在这个地牢里不是人干的事——可你却这么干了，不是吗？你把珍妮弗•阿姆斯特朗关在这里！她还是个小女孩啊。你的孩子至少还知道他不会受到什么伤害，但那个小女孩呢，她差点就被吓死了！”
　　斯蒂克太太站在那里，像金鱼一样张嘴闭嘴，一句话也说不出来。斯蒂克先生像一只被困在角落里的老鼠一样尖叫着：“我们上当了！这是个陷阱，我们就这样被抓住了！”
　　埃德加哭了起来，哭得像个四岁的孩子，其他孩子对他感到十分厌恶。当朱利安打开手电筒时，斯蒂克夫妇突然看到了所有的孩子。
　　“见鬼，这帮孩子们都在这儿，还有珍妮弗•阿姆斯特朗！”斯蒂克先生惊奇地说道，“这是怎么回事？是谁把埃德加关在这里的？”
　　“到了警察局再告诉你。”大个子警察说，“请吧！”
　　斯蒂克夫妇默默地跟着警察走了，埃德加独自啜泣着。他想象着自己的父母被关在监狱里，他被送进一所管教甚严的学校，很多年都不允许见他的妈妈。其实这些并不重要，无论是他的妈妈还是爸爸，都没有对埃德加尽到管教的责任，他们只给他做了个坏榜样。如果可怜的孩子不接触他们，说不定他还能做个好人呢。
　　“我们就不和你们一起回去了。”朱利安礼貌地对警察说，“今晚我们要在这里过夜。你可以坐斯蒂克夫妇的船回去，他们知道怎么走。带上他们的狗，我们管它叫臭鬼。”然后他又补充说，“你的同事们可以坐警船回去。”
　　他们找到了斯蒂克夫妇的船，警察、斯蒂克夫妇和埃德加上了船，臭鬼也跳了上去，它很高兴能逃离蒂米那双放着绿光的眼睛。
　　朱利安把船推了出去，“再见！”他喊道，其他孩子也挥手与他们告别。
　　“再见，斯蒂克先生，别再绑架孩子了。再见，斯蒂克太太，好好照顾埃德加，以防他又被绑架了！再见，雀斑脸，努力做个好孩子吧！再见，臭鬼，快去洗个澡。再见了！”
　　警察们咧嘴笑了笑，挥挥手。斯蒂克一家人一句话也没说，也没有挥手。他们闷闷不乐地坐在那里，脑子里琢磨着究竟是哪个环节出了问题，坏了他们的好事。
　　小船绕过一块高高的礁石，很快就看不见了，“太好了！”迪克说，“他们都走了——一去不复返！小岛终于是我们自己的了。来吧，珍妮弗，我们带你到处转转！我们将度过一段无比美好的时光！”
　　他们快快乐乐地奔跑着，五个孩子和一只狗，独自待在他们心爱的科林岛上。我们不要打扰他们，就让他们留在那里，尽情享受一周的快乐时光吧！
　　对他们的百般刁难，促使他们离家出走。
