Chapter One A GREAT SURPRISE
Chapter One A GREAT SURPRISE

"MOTHER, have you heard about our summer holidays yet?" said Julian, at the breakfast-table.
"Can we go to Polseath as usual?"
"I'm afraid not," said his mother. "They are quite full up this year."The three children at the breakfast-table looked at one another in great disappointment. They did solove the house at Polseath. The beach was so lovely there, too, and the bathing was fine.
"Cheer up," said Daddy. "I dare say we'll find somewhere else just as good for you. And anyway,Mother and I won't be able to go with you this year. Has Mother told you?""No!" said Anne. "Oh, Motheris it true? Can't you really come with us on our holidays? Youalways do."
"Well, this time Daddy wants me to go to Scotland with him," said Mother. "All by ourselves!
And as you are really getting big enough to look after yourselves now, we thought it would be ratherfun for you to have a holiday on your own too. But now that you can't go to Polseath, I don't reallyquite know where to send you."
"What about Quentin's?" suddenly said Daddy. Quentin was his brother, the children's uncle.
They had only seen him once, and had been rather frightened of him. He was a very tall, frowningman, a clever scientist who spent all his time studying. He lived by the sea but that was about allthat the children knew of him!
"Quentin?" said Mother, pursing up her lips. "Whatever made you think of him? I shouldn't think he'dwant the children messing about in his little house.""Well," said Daddy, "I had to see Quentin's wife in town the other day, about a business matterand I don't think things are going too well for them. Fanny said that she would be quite glad if shecould hear of one or two people to live with her for a while, to bring a little money in. Their house isby the sea, you know. It might be just the thing for the children. Fanny is very niceshe would look after them well."
"Yes and she has a child of her own too, hasn't she?" said the children's mother. "Let me seewhat's her name something funny yes, Georgina! How old would she be? About eleven, I shouldthink."
2
"Same age as me," said Dick. "Fancy having a cousin we've never seen! She must be jolly lonely allby herself. I've got Julian and Anne to play with but Georgina is just one on her own. I shouldthink she'd be glad to see us."
"Well, your Aunt Fanny said that her Georgina would love a bit of company," said Daddy. "Youknow, I really think that would solve our difficulty, if we telephone to Fanny and arrange for thechildren to go there. It would help Fanny, I'm sure, and Georgina would love to have someone to playwith in the holidays. And we should know that our three were safe."The children began to feel rather excited. It would be fun to go to a place they had never been tobefore, and stay with an unknown cousin.
"Are there cliffs and rocks and sands there?" asked Anne. "Is it a nice place?""I don't remember it very well," said Daddy. "But I feel sure it's an exciting kind of place.
Anyway, you'll love it! It's called Kirrin Bay. Your Aunt Fanny has lived there all her life, andwouldn't leave it for anything."
"Oh Daddy, do telephone to Aunt Fanny and ask her if we can go there!" cried Dick. "I just feel as ifit's the right place somehow. It sounds sort of adventurous!""Oh, you always say that, wherever you go!" said Daddy, with a laugh. "All right I'll ring up now,and see if there's any chance."
They had all finished their breakfast, and they got up to wait for Daddy to telephone. He went outinto the hall, and they heard him putting the call through.
"I hope it's all right for us!" said Julian. "I wonder what Georgina's like. Funny name, isn't it?
More like a boy's than a girl's. So she's eleven a year younger than I am same age as you, Dick and a year older than you, Anne. She ought to fit in with us all right. The four of us ought to havea fine time together."
Daddy came back in about ten minutes' time, and the children knew at once that he had fixed upeverything. He smiled round at them.
"Well, that's settled," he said. "Your Aunt Fanny is delighted about it. She says it will be awfullygood for Georgina to have company, because she's such a lonely little girl, always going off byherself. And she will love looking after you all. Only you'll have to be careful not to disturb yourUncle Quentin. He is working very hard, and he isn't very good-tempered when he is disturbed.""We'll be as quiet as mice in the house!" said Dick. "Honestly we will. Oh, goody, goodywhen are we going, Daddy?"
3
"Next week, if Mother can manage it," said Daddy.
Mother nodded her head. "Yes," she said, "There's nothing much to get ready for them just bathingsuits and jerseys and shorts. They all wear the same.""How lovely it will be to wear shorts again," said Anne, dancing round. "I'm tired of wearing schooltunics. I want to wear shorts, or a bathing suit, and go bathing and climbing with the boys.""Well, you'll soon be doing it," said Mother, with a laugh. "Remember to put ready any toys or booksyou want, won't you? Not many, please, because there won't be a great deal of room.""Anne wanted to take all her fifteen dolls with her last year," said Dick, "Do you remember, Anne?
Weren't you funny?"
"No, I wasn't," said Anne, going red. "I love my dolls, and I just couldn't choose which to takeso I thought I'd take them all. There's nothing funny about that.""And do you remember, the year before, Anne wanted to take the rocking-horse?" said Dick, with agiggle.
Mother chimed in. "You know, I remember a little boy called Dick who put aside two golliwogs, oneteddy bear, three toy dogs, two toy cats and his old monkey to take down to Polseath one year," shesaid.
Then it was Dick's turn to go red. He changed the subject at once.
"Daddy, are we going by train or by car?" he asked.
"By car," said Daddy. "We can pile everything into the boot. Well what about Tuesday?""That would suit me well," said Mother. "Then we could take the children down, come back, and doour own packing at leisure, and start off for Scotland on the Friday. Yes  we'll arrange forTuesday."
So Tuesday it was. The children counted the days eagerly, and Anne marked one off the calendareach night. The week seemed a very long time in going. But at last Tuesday did come. Dick andJulian, who shared a room, woke up at about the same moment, and stared out of the nearby window.
"It's a lovely day, hurrah!" cried Julian, leaping out of bed. "I don't know why, but it always seemsvery important that it should be sunny on the first day of a holiday. Let's wake Anne."Anne slept in the next room. Julian ran in and shook her. "Wake up! It's Tuesday! And the sun'sshining."
4
Anne woke up with a jump and stared at Julian joyfully. "It's come at last!" she said. "I thought itnever would. Oh, isn't it an exciting feeling to go away for a holiday!"They started soon after breakfast. Their car was a big one, so it held them all very comfortably.
Mother sat in front with Daddy, and the three children sat behind, their feet on two suitcases. In theluggage-place at the back of the car were all kinds of odds and ends, and one small trunk.
Mother really thought they had remembered everything.
Along the crowded London roads they went, slowly at first, and then, as they left the town behind,more quickly. Soon they were right into the open country, and the car sped along fast.
The children sang songs to themselves, as they always did when they were happy.
"Are we picnicking soon?" asked Anne, feeling hungry all of a sudden.
"Yes," said Mother. "But not yet. It's only eleven o'clock. We shan't have lunch till at least half-pasttwelve, Anne."
"Oh, gracious!" said Anne. "I know I can't last out till then!"So her mother handed her some chocolate, and she and the boys munched happily, watching the hills,woods and fields as the car sped by.
The picnic was lovely. They had it on the top of a hill, in a sloping field that looked down into asunny valley. Anne didn't very much like a big brown cow who came up close and stared at her, but itwent away when Daddy told it to. The children ate enormously, and Mother said that instead ofhaving a tea-picnic at half-past four they would have to go to a tea-house somewhere, because theyhad eaten all the tea sandwiches as well as the lunch ones!
"What time shall we be at Aunt Fanny's?" asked Julian, finishing up the very last sandwich andwishing there were more.
"About six o'clock with luck," said Daddy. "Now who wants to stretch their legs a bit? We've anotherlong spell in the car, you know."
The car seemed to eat up the miles as it purred along. Tea-time came, and then the three childrenbegan to feel excited all over again.
"We must watch out for the sea," said Dick. "I can smell it somewhere near!"He was right. The car suddenly topped a hill and there, was the shining blue sea, calm and smoothin the evening sun. The three children gave a yell.
"There it is!"
"Isn't it marvellous!"
5
"Oh, I want to bathe this very minute!"
"We shan't be more than twenty minutes now, before we're at Kirrin Bay," said Daddy. "We've madegood time. You'll see the bay soon it's quite a big one with a funny sort of island at the entranceof the bay."
The children looked out for it as they drove along the coast. Then Julian gave a shout.
"There it is that must be Kirrin Bay. Look, Dick isn't it lovely and blue?""And look at the rocky little island guarding the entrance of the bay," said Dick. "I'd like to visitthat."
"Well, I've no doubt you will," said Mother. "Now, let's look out for Aunt Fanny's house. It's calledKirrin Cottage."
They soon came to it. It stood on the low cliff overlooking the bay, and was a very old house indeed.
It wasn't really a cottage, but quite a big house, built of old white stone. Roses climbed over the frontof it, and the garden was gay with flowers.
"Here's Kirrin Cottage," said Daddy, and he stopped the car in front of it. "It's supposed to be aboutthree hundred years old! Now where's Quentin? Hallo, there's Fanny!"
1.











11








11








15
















1112











20




300
Chapter Two THE STRANGE COUSIN
Chapter Two THE STRANGE COUSIN
The children's aunt had been watching for the car. She came running out of the old wooden door assoon as she saw it draw up outside. The children liked the look of her at once.
"Welcome to Kirrin!" she cried. "Hallo, all of you! It's lovely to see you. And what big children!"There were kisses all round, and then the children went into the house. They liked it. It felt old andrather mysterious somehow, and the furniture was old and very beautiful.
"Where's Georgina?" asked Anne, looking round for her unknown cousin.
"Oh, the naughty girl! I told her to wait in the garden for you," said her aunt. "Now she's gone offsomewhere. I must tell you, children, you may find George a bit difficult at first she's always beenone on her own, you know. And at first may not like you being here. But you mustn't take 6any notice of that she'll be all right in a short time. I was very glad for George's sake that you wereable to come. She badly needs other children to play with.""Do you call her 'George'?" asked Anne, in surprise. "I thought her name was Georgina.""So it is," said her aunt. "But George hates being a girl, and we have to call her George, as if she wasa boy. The naughty girl won't answer if we call her Georgina."The children thought that Georgina sounded rather exciting. They wished she would come. But shedidn't. Their Uncle Quentin suddenly appeared instead. He was a most extraordinary looking man,very tall, very dark, and with a rather fierce frown on his wide forehead.
"Hallo, Quentin!" said Daddy. "It's a long time since I've seen you. I hope these three won't disturbyou very much in your work."
"Quentin is working on a very difficult book," said Aunt Fanny. "But I've given him a room all tohimself on the other side of the house. So I don't expect he will be disturbed."Their uncle looked at the three children, and nodded to them. The frown didn't come off his face, andthey all felt a little scared, and were glad that he was to work in another part of the house.
"Where's George?" he said, in a deep voice.
"Gone off somewhere again," said Aunt Fanny, vexed. "I told her she was to stay here and meet hercousins."
"She wants spanking," said Uncle Quentin. The children couldn't quite make out whether he wasjoking or not. "Well, children, I hope you have a good time here, and maybe you will knock a littlecommon-sense into George!"
There was no room at Kirrin Cottage for Mother and Daddy to stay the night, so after a hurriedsupper they left to stay at a hotel in the nearest town. They would drive back to London immediatelyafter breakfast the next day. So they said goodbye to the children that night.
Georgina still hadn't appeared. "I'm sorry we haven't seen Georgina," said Mother. "Just give her ourlove and tell her we hope she'll enjoy playing with Dick, Julian and Anne."Then Mother and Daddy went. The children felt a little bit lonely as they saw the big car disappearround the corner of the road, but Aunt Fanny took them upstairs to show them their bedrooms, andthey soon forgot to be sad.
The two boys were to sleep together in a room with slanting ceilings at the top of the house. It had amarvellous view of the bay. The boys were really delighted with it. Anne was to sleep with Georginain a smaller room, whose windows looked over the moors at the back of the house. But 7one side-window looked over the sea, which pleased Anne very much. It was a nice room, and redroses nodded their heads in at the window.
"I do wish Georgina would come," Anne said to her aunt. "I want to see what she's like.""Well, she's a funny little girl," said her aunt. "She can be very rude and haughtybut she's kind atheart, very loyal and absolutely truthful. Once she makes friends with you, she will always be yourfriend but she finds it very difficult indeed to make friends, which is a great pity."Anne suddenly yawned. The boys frowned at her, because they knew what would happen next.
And it did!
"Poor Anne! How tired you are! You must all go to bed straight away, and have a good long night.
Then you will wake up quite fresh tomorrow," said Aunt Fanny.
"Anne, you are an idiot," said Dick, crossly, when his aunt had gone out of the room. "You knowquite well what grown-ups think as soon as we yawn. I did want to go down on the beach for awhile."
"I'm so sorry," said Anne. "Somehow I couldn't help it. And anyway, you're yawning now, Dick, andJulian too!"
So they were. They were as sleepy as could be with their long drive. Secretly all of them longed tocuddle down into bed and shut their eyes.
"I wonder where Georgina is," said Anne, when she said good-night to the boys, and went to her ownroom. "Isn't she queer not waiting to welcome us and not coming in to supper and not even inyet! After all, she's sleeping in my room goodness knows what time she'll be in!"All the three children were fast asleep before Georgina came up to bed! They didn't hear her openAnne's door. They didn't hear her get undressed and clean her teeth. They didn't hear the creak of herbed as she got into it. They were so tired that they heard nothing at all until the sun awoke them in themorning.
When Anne awoke she couldn't at first think where she was. She lay in her little bed and looked up atthe slanting ceiling, and at the red roses that nodded at the open window and suddenly rememberedall in a rush where she was! "I'm at Kirrin Bay and it's the holidays." she said to herself, andscrewed up her legs with joy.
Then she looked across at the other bed. In it lay the figure of another child, curled up under the bed-clothes. Anne could just see the top of a curly head, and that was all. When the figure stirred a little,Anne spoke.
8
"I say! Are you Georgina?"
The child in the opposite bed sat up and looked across at Anne. She had very short curly hair, almostas short as a boy's. Her face was burnt a dark-brown with the sun, and her very blue eyes looked asbright as forget-me-nots in her face. But her mouth was rather sulky, and she had a frown like herfather's.
"No," she said. "I'm not Georgina."
"Oh!" said Anne, in surprise. "Then who are you?""I'm George," said the girl. "I shall only answer if you call me George. I hate being a girl. I won't be.
I don't like doing the things that girls do. I like doing the things that boys do. I can climb better thanany boy, and swim faster too. I can sail a boat as well as any fisher-boy on this coast.
You're to call me George. Then I'll speak to you. But I shan't if you don't.""Oh!" said Anne, thinking that her new cousin was most extraordinary. "All right! I don't care what Icall you. George is a nice name, I think. I don't much like Georgina. Anyway, you look like a boy.""Do I really?" said George, the frown leaving her face for a moment. "Mother was awfully cross withme when I cut my hair short. I had hair all round my neck; it was awful."The two girls stared at one another for a moment. "Don't you simply hate being a girl?" askedGeorge.
"No, of course not," said Anne. "You see I do like pretty frocks and I love my dolls and youcan't do that if you're a boy."
"Pooh! Fancy bothering about pretty frocks," said George, in a scornful voice. "And dolls! Well, youare a baby, that's all I can say."
Anne felt offended. "You're not very polite," she said. "You won't find that my brothers take muchnotice of you if you act as if you knew everything. They're real boys, not pretend boys, like you.""Well, if they're going to be nasty to me I shan't take any notice of them," said George, jumping outof bed. "I didn't want any of you to come, anyway. Interfering with my life here! I'm quite happy onmy own. Now I've got to put up with a silly girl who likes frocks and dolls, and two stupid boy-cousins!"
9
Anne felt that they had made a very bad beginning. She said no more, but got dressed herself too.
She put on her grey jeans and a red jersey. George put on jeans too, and a boy's jersey. Just as theywere ready the boys hammered on their door.
"Aren't you ready? Is Georgina there? Cousin Georgina, come out and see us."George flung open the door and marched out with her head high. She took no notice of the twosurprised boys at all. She stalked downstairs. The other three children looked at one another.
"She won't answer if you call her Georgina," explained Anne. "She's awfully queer, I think. She saysshe didn't want us to come because we'll interfere with her. She laughed at me, and was rather rude."Julian put his arm round Anne, who looked a bit doleful. "Cheer up!" he said. "You've got us to stickup for you. Come on down to breakfast."
They were all hungry. The smell of bacon and eggs was very good. They ran down the stairs and saidgood-morning to their aunt. She was just bringing the breakfast to the table. Their uncle was sitting atthe head, reading his paper. He nodded at the children. They sat down without a word, wondering ifthey were allowed to speak at meals. They always were at home, but their Uncle Quentin lookedrather fierce.
George was there, buttering a piece of toast. She scowled at the three children.
"Don't look like that, George," said her mother. "I hope you've made friends already. It will be fun foryou to play together. You must take your cousins to see the bay this morning and show them the bestplaces to bathe."
"I'm going fishing," said George.
Her father looked up at once.
"You are not," he said. "You are going to show a few good manners for a change, and take yourcousins to the bay. Do you hear me?"
"Yes," said George, with a scowl exactly like her father's.
"Oh, we can go to the bay by ourselves all right, if George is going fishing," said Anne, at once,thinking that it would be nice not to have George if she was in a bad temper.
"George will do exactly as she's told," said her father. "If she doesn't, I shall deal with her."So, after breakfast, four children got ready to go down to the beach. An easy path led down to thebay, and they ran down happily. Even George lost her frown as she felt the warmth of the sun andsaw the dancing sparkles on the blue sea.
10
"You go fishing if you want to," said Anne when they were down on the beach. "We won't tell talesof you. We don't want to interfere with you, you know. We've got ourselves for company, and if youdon't want to be with us, you needn't."
"But we'd like you, all the same, if you'd like to be with us," said Julian, generously. He thoughtGeorge was rude and ill-mannered, but he couldn't help rather liking the look of the straight-backed,short-haired little girl, with her brilliant blue eyes and sulky mouth.
George stared at him. "I'll see, she said. "I don't make friends with people just because they're mycousins, or something silly like that. I only make friends with people if I like them.""So do we," said Julian. "We may not like you, of course.""Oh!" said George, as if that thought hadn't occurred to her. "Well you may not, of course.
Lots of people don't like me, now I come to think of it."Anne was staring out over the blue bay. At the entrance to it lay a curious rocky island with whatlooked like an old ruined castle on the top of it.
"Isn't that a funny place?" she said. "I wonder what it's called.""It's called Kirrin Island," said George, her eyes as blue as the sea as she turned to look at it. "It's alovely place to go to. If I like you, I may take you there some day. But I don't promise. The only wayto get there is by boat."
"Who does the funny island belong to?" asked Julian.
George made a most surprising answer. "It belongs to me," she said. "At least, it will belong to mesome day! It will be my very own island and my very own castle!"
2.





































































Chapter Three A QUEER STORY  AND A NEW FRIEND
Chapter Three A QUEER STORY  AND A NEW FRIEND
The three children stared at George in the greatest surprise.
George stared back at them.
"What do you mean?" said Dick, at last. "Kirrin Island can't belong to you. You're just boasting.""No, I'm not," said George. "You ask Mother. If you're not going to believe what I say I won't tellyou another word more. But I don't tell untruths. I think it's being a coward if you don't tell the truth and I'm not a coward."
11
Julian remembered that Aunt Fanny had said that George was absolutely truthful, and he scratchedhis head and looked at George again. How could she be possibly telling the truth?
"Well, of course we'll believe you if you tell us the truth," he said. "But it does sound a bitextraordinary, you know. Really it does. Children don't usually own islands, even funny little oneslike that."
"It isn't a funny little island," said George, fiercely. "It's lovely. There are rabbits there, as tame as canbe and the big cormorants sit on the other side and all kinds of gulls go there. The castle iswonderful too, even if it is all in ruins.""It sounds fine," said Dick. "How does it belong to you, Georgina?"George glared at him and didn't answer.
"Sorry," said Dick, hastily. "I didn't mean to call you Georgina. I meant to call you George.""Go on, George tell us how the island belongs to you," said Julian, slipping his arm through hissulky little cousin's.
She pulled away from him at once.
"Don't do that," she said. "I'm not sure that I want to make friends with you yet.""All right, all right," said Julian, losing patience. "Be enemies or anything you like. We don't care.
But we like your mother awfully, and we don't want her to think we won't make friends with you.""Do you like my mother?" said George, her bright blue eyes softening a little. "Yes she's a dear,isn't she? Well all right I'll tell you how Kirrin Castle belongs to me. Come and sit down here inthis corner where nobody can hear us."
They all sat down in a sandy corner of the beach. George looked across at the little island in the bay.
"It's like this," she said. "Years ago my mother's people owned nearly all the land around here.
Then they got poor, and had to sell most of it. But they could never sell that little island, becausenobody thought it worth anything, especially as the castle has been ruined for years.""Fancy nobody wanting to buy a dear little island like that!" said Dick. "I'd buy it at once if I had themoney."
"All that's left of what Mother's family owned is our own house, Kirrin Cottage, and a farm a littleway off and Kirrin Island," said George. "Mother says when I'm grown-up it will be 12mine. She says she doesn't want it now, either, so she's sort of given it to me. It belongs to me.
It's my own private island, and I don't let anyone go there unless they get my permission."The three children stared at her. They believed every word George said, for it was quite plain that thegirl was speaking the truth. Fancy having an island of your very own! They thought she was verylucky indeed.
"Oh Georgina I mean George!" said Dick. "I do think you're lucky. It looks such a nice island.
I hope you'll be friends with us and take us there one day soon. You simply can't imagine how we'dlove it."
"Well I might," said George, pleased at the interest she had caused. "I'll see. I never have takenanyone there yet, though some of the boys and girls round here have begged me to. But I don't likethem, so I haven't."
There was a little silence as the four children looked out over the bay to where the island lay in thedistance. The tide was going out. It almost looked as if they could wade over to the island.
Dick asked if it was possible.
"No," said George. "I told you it's only possible to get to it by boat. It's farther out than it looksand the water is very, very deep. There are rocks all about too you have to know exactly where torow a boat, or you bump into them. It's a dangerous bit of coast here. There are a lot of wrecksabout."
"Wrecks!" cried Julian, his eyes shining, "I say! I've never seen an old wreck. Are there any to see?""Not now," said George. "They've all been cleared up. Except one, and that's the other side of theisland. It's deep down in the water. You can just see the broken mast if you row over it on a calm dayand look down into the water. That wreck really belongs to me too."This time the children really could hardly believe George. But she nodded her head firmly.
"Yes," she said, "it was a ship belonging to one of my great-great-great-grandfathers, or someone likethat. He was bringing gold big bars of gold back in his shipand it got wrecked off KirrinIsland."
"Oooh what happened to the gold?" asked Anne, her eyes round and big.
"Nobody knows," said George. "I expect it was stolen out of the ship. Divers have been down to see,of course, but they couldn't find any gold.""Golly this does sound exciting," said Julian. "I wish I could see the wreck."13
"Well we might perhaps go this afternoon when the tide is right down," said George. "The water isso calm and clear today. We could see a bit of it.""Oh, how wonderful!" said Anne. "I do so want to see a real live wreck!"The others laughed. "Well, it won't be very alive," said Dick. "I say, George what about a bathe?""I must go and get Timothy first," said George. She got up.
"Who's Timothy?" said Dick.
"Can you keep a secret?" asked George. "Nobody must know at home.""Well, go on, what's the secret?" asked Julian. "You can tell us. We're not sneaks.""Timothy is my very greatest friend," said George. "I couldn't do without him. But Mother and Fatherdon't like him, so I have to keep him in secret. I'll go and fetch him."She ran off up the cliff path. The others watched her go. They thought she was the queerest girl theyhad ever known.
"Who in the world can Timothy be?" wondered Julian. "Some fisher-boy, I suppose, that George'sparents don't approve of."
The children, lay back in the soft sand and waited. Soon they heard George's clear voice comingdown from the cliff behind them.
"Come on, Timothy! Come on!"
They sat up and looked to see what Timothy was like. They saw no fisher-boy but instead a bigbrown mongrel dog with an absurdly long tail and a big wide mouth that really seemed to grin! Hewas bounding all round George, mad with delight. She came running down to them.
"This is Timothy," she said. "Don't you think he is simply perfect?"As a dog, Timothy was far from perfect. He was the wrong shape, his head was too big, his ears weretoo pricked, his tail was too long and it was quite impossible to say what kind of a dog he wassupposed to be. But he was such a mad, friendly, clumsy, laughable creature that every one of thechildren adored him at once.
"Oh, you darling!" said Anne, and got a lick on the nose.
"I say isn't he grand!" said Dick, and gave Timothy a friendly smack that made the dog boundmadly all round him.
"I wish I had a dog like this," said Julian, who really loved dogs, and had always wanted one of hisown. "Oh, George he's fine. Aren't you proud of him?"14
The little girl smiled, and her face altered at once, and became sunny and pretty. She sat down on thesand and her dog cuddled up to her, licking her wherever he could find a bare piece of skin.
"I love him awfully," she said. "I found him out on the moors when he was just a pup, a year ago, andI took him home. At first Mother liked him, but when he grew bigger he got terribly naughty.""What did he do?" asked Anne.
"Well, he's an awfully chewy kind of dog," said George. "He chewed up everything he could a newrug Mother had bought her nicest hat Father's slippers some of his papers, and things like that.
And he barked too. I liked his bark, but Father didn't. He said it nearly drove him mad.
He hit Timothy and that made me angry, so I was awfully rude to him.""Did you get spanked?" said Anne. "I wouldn't like to be rude to your father. He looks fierce."George looked out over the bay. Her face had gone sulky again. "Well, it doesn't matter whatpunishment I got," she said, "but the worst part of all was when Father said I couldn't keep Timothyany more, and Mother backed Father up and said Tim must go. I cried for days and I never do cry,you know, because boys don't and I like to be like a boy.""Boys do cry sometimes," began Anne, looking at Dick, who had been a bit of a cry-baby three orfour years back. Dick gave her a sharp nudge, and she said no more.
George looked at Anne.
"Boys don't cry," she said, obstinately. "Anyway, I've never seen one, and I always try not to crymyself. It's so babyish. But I just couldn't help it when Timothy had to go. He cried too."The children looked with great respect at Timothy. They had not known that a dog could cry before.
"Do you mean he cried real tears?" asked Anne.
"No, not quite," said George. "He's too brave for that. He cried with his voice howled and howledand looked so miserable that he nearly broke my heart. And then I knew I couldn't possibly part withhim."
"What happened then?" asked Julian.
"I went to Alf, a fisher-boy I know," said George, "and I asked him if he'd keep Tim for me, if I paidhim all the pocket-money I get. He said he would, and so he does. That's why I never have anymoney to spend it all has to go on Tim. He seems to eat an awful lot don't you, Tim?""Woof!" said Tim, and rolled over on his back, all his shaggy legs in the air. Julian tickled him.
15
"How do you manage when you want any sweets or ice-creams?" said Anne, who spent most of herpocket-money on things of that sort.
"I don't manage," said George. "I go without, of course."This sounded awful to the other children, who loved ice-creams, chocolates and sweets, and had agood many of them. They stared at George.
"Well I suppose the other children who play on the beach share their sweets and ices with yousometimes, don't they?" asked Julian.
"I don't let them," said George. "If I can never give them any myself it's not fair to take them. So I sayno."
The tinkle of an ice-cream man's bell was heard in the distance. Julian felt in his pocket. He jumpedup and rushed off, jingling his money. In a few moments he was back again, carrying four fatchocolate ice-cream bars. He gave one to Dick, and one to Anne, and then held out one to George.
She looked at it longingly, but shook her head.
"No, thanks," she said. "You know what I just said. I haven't any money to buy them, so I can't sharemine with you, and I can't take any from you. It's mean to take from people if you can't give even alittle back."
"You can take from us," said Julian, trying to put the ice into George's brown hand. "We're yourcousins."
"No, thanks," said George again. "Though I do think it's nice of you."She looked at Julian out of her blue eyes and the boy frowned as he tried to think of a way to makethe obstinate little girl take the ice. Then he smiled.
"Listen," he said, "you've got something we badly want to share in fact you've got a lot of thingswe'd like to share, if only you'd let us. You share those with us, and let us share things like ices withyou. See?"
"What things have I got that you want to share?" asked George, in surprise.
"You've got a dog," said Julian, patting the big brown mongrel. "We'd love to share him with you,he's such a darling. And you've got a lovely island. We'd be simply thrilled if you'd share itsometimes. And you've got a wreck. We'd like to look at it and share it too. Ices and sweets aren't sogood as those things but it would be nice to make a bargain and share with each other."George looked at the brown eyes that gazed steadily into hers. She couldn't help liking Julian. Itwasn't her nature to share anything. She had always been an only child, a lonely, rather 16misunderstood little girl, fierce and hot-tempered. She had never had any friends of her own.
Timothy looked up at Julian and saw that he was offering something nice and chocolately to George.
He jumped up and licked the boy with his friendly tongue.
"There you are, you see Tim wants to be shared," said Julian, with a laugh. "It would be nice forhim to have three new friends."
"Yes it would," said George, giving in suddenly, and taking the chocolate bar. "Thank you, Julian.
I will share with you. But promise you'll never tell anyone at home that I'm still keeping Timothy?""Of course we'll promise," said Julian. "But I can't imagine that your father or mother would mind, solong as Tim doesn't live in their house. How's the ice? Is it nice?""Ooooh the loveliest one I've ever tasted!" said George nibbling at it. "It's so cold. I haven't hadone this year. It's simply DELICIOUS!"
Timothy tried to nibble it too. George gave him a few crumbs at the end. Then she turned and smiledat the three children.
"You're nice," she said. "I'm glad you've come after all. Let's take a boat out this afternoon and rowround the island to have a look at the wreck, shall we?""Rather!" said all three at once and even Timothy wagged his tail as if he understood!
3.



























































































Chapter Four AN EXCITING AFTERNOON
Chapter Four AN EXCITING AFTERNOON
They all had a bathe that morning, and the boys found that George was a much better swimmer thanthey were. She was very strong and very fast, and she could swim under water, too, holding herbreath for ages.
"You're jolly good," said Julian, admiringly. "It's a pity Anne isn't a bit better. Anne, you'll have topractice your swimming strokes hard, or you'll never be able to swim out as far as we do."They were all very hungry at lunch time. They went back up the cliff-path, hoping there would be lotsto eat and there was! Cold meat and salad, plum-pie and custard, and cheese afterwards. How thechildren tucked in!
"What are you going to do this afternoon?" asked George's mother.
17
"George is going to take us out in a boat to see the wreck on the other side of the island," said Anne.
Her aunt looked most surprised.
" George is going to take you!" she said. "Why George what's come over you? You've never takena single person before, though I've asked you to dozens of times!"George said nothing, but went on eating her plum-pie. She hadn't said a word all through the meal.
Her father had not appeared at the table, much to the children's relief.
"Well, George, I must say I'm pleased that you want to try and do what your father said," began hermother again. But George shook her head.
"I'm not doing it because I've got to," she said. "I'm doing it because I want to. I wouldn't have takenanyone to see my wreck, not even the Queen of England, if I didn't like them."Her mother laughed. "Well, it's good news that you like your cousins," she said. "I hope they likeyou!"
"Oh yes!" said Anne, eagerly, anxious to stick up for her strange cousin. "We do like George, and welike Ti ..."
She was just about to say that they liked Timothy too, when she got such a kick on her ankle that shecried out in pain and the tears came into her eyes. George glared at her.
"George? Why did you kick Anne like that when she was saying nice things about you?" cried hermother. "Leave the table at once. I won't have such behaviour."George left the table without a word. She went out into the garden. She had just taken a piece ofbread and cut herself some cheese. It was all left on her plate. The other three stared at it in distress.
Anne was upset. How could she have been so silly as to forget she mustn't mention Tim?
"Oh, please call George back!" she said. "She didn't mean to kick me. It was an accident."But her aunt was very angry with George. "Finish your meal," she said to the others. "I expectGeorge will go into the sulks now. Dear, dear, she is such a difficult child!"The others didn't mind about George going into the sulks. What they did mind was that George mightrefuse to take them to see the wreck now!
They finished the meal in silence. Their aunt went to see if Uncle Quentin wanted any more pie.
He was having his meal in the study by himself. As soon as she had gone out of the room, Annepicked up the bread and cheese from George's plate and went out into the garden.
18
The boys didn't scold her. They knew that Anne's tongue very often ran away with her but shealways tried to make up for it afterwards. They thought it was very brave of her to go and findGeorge.
George was lying on her back under a big tree in the garden. Anne went up to her. "I'm sorry I nearlymade a mistake, George," she said. "Here's your bread and cheese. I've brought it for you.
I promise I'll never forget not to mention Tim again."George sat up. "I've a good mind not to take you to see the wreck," she said. "Stupid baby!"Anne's heart sank. This was what she had feared. "Well," she said, "you needn't take me, of course.
But you might take the boys, George. After all, they didn't do anything silly. And anyway, you gaveme an awful kick. Look at the bruise."
George looked at it. Then she looked at Anne. "But wouldn't you be miserable if I took Julian andDick without you?" she asked.
"Of course," said Anne. "But I don't want to make them miss a treat, even if I have to."Then George did a surprising thing for her. She gave Anne a hug! Then she immediately looked mostashamed of herself, for she felt sure that no boy would have done that! And she always tried to actlike a boy.
"It's all right," she said, gruffly, taking the bread and cheese. "You were nearly very silly and Igave you a kick so it's all square. Of course you can come this afternoon."Anne sped back to tell the boys that everything was all right and in fifteen minutes' time fourchildren ran down to the beach. By a boat was a brown-faced fisher-boy, about fourteen years old. Hehad Timothy with him.
"Boat's all ready, Master George," he said with a grin. "And Tim's ready, too.""Thanks," said George, and told the others to get in. Timothy jumped in, too, his big tail waggingnineteen to the dozen. George pushed the boat off into the surf and then jumped in herself. She tookthe oars.
She rowed splendidly, and the boat shot along over the blue bay. It was a wonderful afternoon, andthe children loved the movement of the boat over the water. Timothy stood at the prow and barkedwhenever a wave reared its head.
"He's funny on a wild day," said George, pulling hard. "He barks madly at the big waves, and gets soangry if they splash him. He's an awfully good swimmer."19
"Isn't it nice to have a dog with us?" said Anne, anxious to make up for her mistake. "I do so likehim."
"Woof," said Timothy, in his deep voice and turned round to lick Anne's ear.
"I'm sure he knew what I said," said Anne in delight.
"Of course he did," said George. "He understands every single word.""I say we're getting near to your island now," said Julian, in excitement. "It's bigger than I thought.
And isn't the castle exciting?"
They drew near to the island, and the children saw that there were sharp rocks all round about it.
Unless anyone knew exactly the way to take, no boat or ship could possibly land on the shore of therocky little island. In the very middle of it, on a low hill, rose the ruined castle. It had been built ofbig white stones. Broken archways, tumbledown towers, ruined walls that was all that was left of aonce beautiful castle, proud and strong. Now the jackdaws nested in it and the gulls sat on thetopmost stones.
"It looks awfully mysterious," said Julian. "How I'd love to land there and have a look at the castle.
Wouldn't it be fun to spend a night or two here!"George stopped rowing. Her face lighted up. "I say!" she said, in delight. "Do you know, I neverthought how lovely that would be! To spend a night on my island! To be there all alone, the four ofus. To get our own meals, and pretend we really lived there. Wouldn't it be grand?""Yes, rather," said Dick, looking longingly at the island. "Do you think do you suppose yourmother would let us?"
"I don't know," said George. "She might. You could ask her.""Can't we land there this afternoon?" asked Julian.
"No, not if you want to see the wreck," said George. "We've got to get back for tea today, and it willtake all the time to row round to the other side of Kirrin Island and back.""Well I'd like to see the wreck," said Julian, torn between the island and the wreck. "Here, let metake the oars for a bit, George. You can't do all the rowing.""I can," said George. "But I'd quite enjoy lying back in the boat for a change! Look I'll just takeyou by this rocky bit and then you can take the oars till we come to another awkward piece.
Honestly, the rocks around this bay are simply dreadful!"20
George and Julian changed places in the boat. Julian rowed well, but not so strongly as George.
The boat sped along rocking smoothly. They went right round the island, and saw the castle from theother side. It looked more ruined on the side that faced the sea.
"The strong winds come from the open sea," explained George. "There's not really much left of it thisside, except piles of stones. But there's a good little harbour in a little cove, for those who know howto find it."
George took the oars after a while, and rowed steadily out a little beyond the island. Then she stoppedand looked back towards the shore.
"How do you know when you are over the wreck?" asked Julian, puzzled. "I should never know!""Well, do you see that church tower on the mainland?" asked George. "And do you see the tip of thathill over there? Well, when you get them exactly in line with one another, between the two towers ofthe castle on the island, you are pretty well over the wreck! I found that out ages ago."The children saw that the tip of the far-off hill and the church tower were practically in line, whenthey looked at them between the two old towers of the island castle. They looked eagerly down intothe sea to see if they could spy the wreck.
The water was perfectly clear and smooth. There was hardly a wrinkle. Timothy looked down into ittoo, his head on one side, his ears cocked, just as if he knew what he was looking for! The childrenlaughed at him.
"We're not exactly over it," said George, looking down too. "The water's so clear today that weshould be able to see quite a long way down. Wait, I'll row a bit to the left.""Woof!" said Timothy, suddenly, and wagged his tail and at the same moment the three childrensaw something deep down in the water!
"It's the wreck!" said Julian, almost falling out of the boat in his excitement. "I can see a bit of brokenmast. Look, Dick, look!"
All four children and the dog, too, gazed down earnestly into the clear water. After a little while theycould make out the outlines of a dark hulk, out of which the broken mast stood.
"It's a bit on one side," said Julian. "Poor old ship. How it must hate lying there, gradually falling topieces. George, I wish I could dive down and get a closer look at it.""Well, why don't you?" said George. "You've got your swimming trunks on. I've often dived down.
I'll come with you, if you like, if Dick can keep the boat round about here. There's a 21current that is trying to take it out to sea. Dick, you'll have to keep working a bit with this oar to keepthe boat in one spot."
The girl stripped off her jeans and jersey and Julian did the same. They both had on bathing costumesunderneath. George took a beautiful header off the end of the boat, deep down into the water. Theothers watched her swimming strongly downwards, holding her breath.
After a bit she came up, almost bursting for breath. "Well, I went almost down to the wreck," shesaid. "It's just the same as it always is seaweedy and covered with limpets and things. I wish Icould get right into the ship itself. But I never have enough breath for that. You go down now,Julian."
So down Julian went but he was not so good at swimming deep under water as George was, and hecouldn't go down so far. He knew how to open his eyes under water, so he was able to take a goodlook at the deck of the wreck. It looked very forlorn and strange. Julian didn't really like it verymuch. It gave him rather a sad sort of feeling. He was glad to go to the top of the water again, andtake deep breaths of air, and feel the warm sunshine on his shoulders.
He climbed into the boat, "Most exciting," he said. "Golly, wouldn't I just love to see that wreckproperly you know go down under the deck into the cabins and look around. And oh, supposewe could really find the boxes of gold!"
"That's impossible," said George. "I told you proper divers have already gone down and foundnothing. What's the time? I say, we'll be late if we don't hurry back now!"They did hurry back, and managed to be only about five minutes late for tea. Afterwards they wentfor a walk over the moors, with Timothy at their heels, and by the time that bedtime came they wereall so sleepy that they could hardly keep their eyes open.
"Well, good-night, George," said Anne, snuggling down into her bed. "We've had a lovely daythanks to you!"
"And I've had a lovely day, too," said George, rather gruffly. "Thanks to you. I'm glad you all came.
We're going to have fun. And won't you love my castle and my little island!""Ooh, yes," said Anne, and fell asleep to dream of wrecks and castles and islands by the hundred.
Oh, when would George take them to her little island?
4.





























1514









































Chapter Five A VISIT TO THE ISLAND
Chapter Five A VISIT TO THE ISLAND
The children's aunt arranged a picnic for them the next day, and they all went off to a little cove notfar off where they could bathe and paddle to their hearts' content. They had a wonderful day, butsecretly Julian, Dick and Anne wished they could have visited George's island. They would ratherhave done that than anything!
George didn't want to go for the picnic, not because she disliked picnics, but because she couldn'ttake her dog. Her mother went with the children, and George had to pass a whole day without herbeloved Timothy.
"Bad luck!" said Julian, who guessed what she was brooding about. "I can't think why you don't tellyour mother about old Tim. I'm sure she wouldn't mind you letting someone else keep him for you. Iknow my mother wouldn't mind."
"I'm not going to tell anybody but you," said George. "I get into awful trouble at home always. I daresay it's my fault, but I get a bit tired of it. You see, Daddy doesn't make much money with the learnedbooks he writes, and he's always wanting to give mother and me things he can't afford. So that makeshim bad-tempered. He wants to send me away to a good school but he hasn't got the money. I'm glad.
I don't want to go away to school. I like being here. I couldn't bear to part with Timothy.""You'd like boarding school," said Anne. "We all go. It's fun.""No, it isn't," said George obstinately. "It must be awful to be one of a crowd, and to have other girlsall laughing and yelling round you. I should hate it.""No, you wouldn't," said Anne. "All that is great fun. It would be good for you, George, I shouldthink."
"If you start telling me what is good for me, I shall hate you," said George, suddenly looking veryfierce. "Mother and father are always saying that things are good for me and they are always thethings I don't like."
"All right, all right," said Julian, beginning to laugh. "My goodness, how you do go up in smoke!
Honestly, I believe anyone could light a cigarette from the sparks that fly from your eyes!"That made George laugh, though she didn't want to. It was really impossible to sulk with good-tempered Julian.
23
They went off to bathe in the sea for the fifth time that day. Soon they were all splashing abouthappily, and George found time to help Anne to swim. The little girl hadn't got the right stroke, andGeorge felt really proud when she had taught her.
"Oh, thanks," said Anne, struggling along. "I'll never be as good as you but I'd like to be as good asthe boys."
As they were going home, George spoke to Julian. "Could you say that you want to go and buy astamp or something?" she said. "Then I could go with you, and just have a peep at old Tim. He'll bewondering why I haven't taken him out today.""Right!" said Julian. "I don't want stamps, but I could do with an ice. Dick and Anne can go homewith your mother and carry the things. I'll just go and tell Aunt Fanny."He ran up to his aunt. "Do you mind if I go and buy some ice-creams?" he asked. "We haven't hadone today. I won't be long. Can George go with me?""I don't expect she will want to," said his aunt. "But you can ask her.""George, come with me!" yelled Julian, setting off to the little village at a great pace. George gave asudden grin and ran after him. She soon caught him up and smiled gratefully at him.
"Thanks," she said. "You go and get the ice-creams, and I'll have a look at Tim."They parted, Julian bought four ice-creams, and turned to go home. He waited about for George, whocame running up after a few minutes. Her face was glowing.
"He's all right," she said. "And you can't imagine how pleased he was to see me! He nearly jumpedover my head! I say another ice-cream for me. You really are a sport, Julian. I'll have to sharesomething with you quickly. What about going to my island tomorrow?""Golly!" said Julian, his eye's shining. "That would be marvellous. Will you really take us tomorrow?
Come on, let's tell the others!"
The four children sat in the garden eating their ices. Julian told them what George had said. They allfelt excited. George was pleased. She had always felt quite important before when she had haughtilyrefused to take any of the other children to see Kirrin Island but it felt much nicer somehow tohave consented to row her cousins there.
"I used to think it was much, much nicer always to do things on my own," she thought, as she suckedthe last bits of her ice. "But it's going to be fun doing things with Julian and the others."The children were sent to wash themselves and to get tidy before supper. They talked eagerly aboutthe visit to the island next day. Their aunt heard them and smiled.
24
"Well, I really must say I'm pleased that George is going to share something with you," she said.
"Would you like to take your dinner there, and spend the day? It's hardly worth while rowing all theway there and landing unless you are going to spend some hours there.""Oh, Aunt Fanny! It would be marvellous to take our dinner!" cried Anne.
George looked up. "Are you coming too, Mother?" she asked.
"You don't sound at all as if you want me to," said her mother, in a hurt tone. "You looked crossyesterday, too, when you found I was coming. No I shan't come tomorrow but I'm sure yourcousins must think you are a queer girl never to want your mother to go with you."George said nothing. She hardly ever did say a word when she was scolded. The other children saidnothing too. They knew perfectly well that it wasn't that George didn't want her mother to go it wasjust that she wanted Timothy with her!
"Anyway, I couldn't come," went on Aunt Fanny. "I've some gardening to do. You'll be quite safewith George. She can handle a boat like a man."The three children looked eagerly at the weather the next day when they got up. The sun was shining,and everything seemed splendid.
"Isn't it a marvellous day?"said Anne to George,as they dressed. "I'm so looking forward to going tothe island."
"Well, honestly, I think really we oughtn't to go," said George, unexpectedly.
"Oh, but why?" cried Anne, in dismay.
"I think there's going to be a storm or something," said George, looking out to the south-west.
"But, George, why do you say that?" said Anne, impatiently. "Look at the sun and there's hardly acloud in the sky!"
"The wind is wrong," said George. "And can't you see the little white tops to the waves out there bymy island? That's always a bad sign."
"Oh George it will be the biggest disappointment of our lives if we don't go today," said Anne,who couldn't bear any disappointment, big or small. "And besides," she added, artfully, "if we hangabout the house, afraid of a storm, we shan't be able to have dear old Tim with us.""Yes, that's true," said George. "All right we'll go. But mind, if a storm does come, you're not to bea baby. You're to try and enjoy it and not be frightened."25
"Well, I don't much like storms," began Anne, but stopped when she saw George's scornful look.
They went down to breakfast, and George asked her mother if they could take their dinner as theyhad planned.
"Yes," said her mother. "You and Anne can help to make the sandwiches. You boys can go into thegarden and pick some ripe plums to take with you. Julian, you can go down to the village whenyou've done that and buy some bottles of lemonade or ginger-beer, whichever you like.""Ginger-pop for me, thanks!" said Julian, and everyone else said the same. They all felt very happy.
It would be marvellous to visit the queer little island. George felt happy because she would be withTim all day.
They set off at last, the food in two kit-bags. The first thing they did was to fetch Tim. He was tied upin the fisher-boy's back yard. The boy himself was there, and grinned at George.
"Morning, Master George," he said. It seemed so queer to the other children to hear Georgina called'Master George'! 'Tim's been barking his head off for you. I guess he knew you were coming for himtoday."
"Of course he did," said George, untying him. He at once went completely mad, and tore round andround the children, his tail down and his ears flat.
"He'd win any race if only he was a greyhound," said Julian, admiringly. "You can hardly see him fordust. Tim! Hie, Tim! Come and say "Good-morning"."Tim leapt up and licked Julian's left ear as he passed on his whirlwind way. Then he sobered downand ran lovingly by George as they all made their way to the beach. He licked George's bare legsevery now and again, and she pulled at his ears gently.
They got into the boat, and George pushed off. The fisher-boy waved to them. "You won't be verylong, will you?" he called. "There's a storm blowing up. Bad one it'll be, too.""I know," shouted back George. "But maybe we'll get back before it begins. It's pretty far off yet."George rowed all the way to the island. Tim stood at each end of the boat in turn, barking when thewaves reared up at him. The children watched the island coming closer and closer. It looked evenmore exciting than it had the other day.
"George, where are you going to land?" asked Julian. "I simply can't imagine how you know yourway in and out of these awful rocks. I'm afraid every moment we'll bump into them!"26
"I'm going to land at the little cove I told you about the other day," said George. "There's only oneway to it, but I know it very well. It's hidden away on the east side of the island."The girl cleverly worked her boat in and out of the rocks, and suddenly, as it rounded a low wall ofsharp rocks, the children saw the cove she had spoken of. It was like a natural little harbour, and wasa smooth inlet of water running up to a stretch of sand, sheltered between high rocks.
The boat slid into the inlet, and at once stopped rocking, for here the water was like glass, and hadhardly a wrinkle.
"I say this is fine!" said Julian, his eyes shining with delight. George looked at him and her eyesshone too, as bright as the sea itself. It was the first time she had ever taken anyone to her preciousisland, and she was enjoying it.
They landed on the smooth yellow sand. "We're really on the island!" said Anne, and she caperedabout, Tim joining her and looking as mad as she did. The others laughed. George pulled the boathigh up on the sand.
"Why so far up?" said Julian, helping her. "The tide's almost in, isn't it? Surely it won't come as highas this."
"I told you I thought a storm was coming," said, George. "If one does, the waves simply tear up thisinlet and we don't want to lose our boat, do we?""Let's explore the island, let's explore the island!" yelled Anne, who was now at the top of the littlenatural harbour, climbing up the rocks there. "Oh do come on!"They all followed her. It really was a most exciting place. Rabbits were everywhere! They scuttledabout as the children appeared, but did not go into their holes.
"Aren't they awfully tame?" said Julian, in surprise.
"Well, nobody ever comes here but me," said George, "and I don't frighten them. Tim! Tim, if you goafter the rabbits, I'll spank you."
Tim turned big sorrowful eyes on to George. He and George agreed about every single thing exceptrabbits. To Tim rabbits were made for one thingto chase! He never could understand why Georgewouldn't let him do this. But he held himself in and walked solemnly by the children, his eyeswatching the lolloping rabbits longingly.
"I believe they would almost eat out of my hand," said Julian.
But George shook her head.
27
"No, I've tried that with them," she said. "They won't. Look at those baby ones. Aren't they lovely?""Woof!" said Tim, agreeing, and he took a few steps towards them. George made a warning noise inher throat, and Tim walked back, his tail down.
"There's the castle!" said Julian. "Shall we explore that now? I do want to.""Yes, we will," said George. "Look that is where the entrance used to be through that big brokenarchway."
The children gazed at the enormous old archway, now half-broken down. Behind it were ruined stonesteps leading towards the centre of the castle.
"It had strong walls all round it, with two towers," said George. "One tower is almost gone, as youcan see, but the other is not so bad. The jackdaws build in that every year. They've almost filled it upwith their sticks!"
As they came near to the better tower of the two the jackdaws circled round them with loud cries of"Chack, chack, chack!" Tim leapt into the air as if he thought he could get them, but they only calledmockingly to him.
"This is the centre of the castle," said George, as they entered through a ruined doorway into whatlooked like a great yard, whose stone floor was now overgrown with grass and other weeds.
"Here is where the people used to live. You can see where the rooms were look, there's one almostwhole there. Go through that little door and you'll see it."They trooped through a doorway and found themselves in a dark, stone-walled, stone-roofed room,with a space at one end where a fire-place must have been. Two slit-like windows lighted the room. Itfelt very queer and mysterious.
"What a pity it's all broken down," said Julian, wandering out again. "That room seems to be the onlyone quite whole. There are some others here but all of them seem to have either no roof, or one orother of the walls gone. That room is the only liveable one. Was there an upstairs to the castle,George?"
"Of course," said George. "But the steps that led up are gone, Look! You can see part of an upstairsroom there, by the jackdaw tower. You can't get up to it, though, because I've tried. I nearly broke myneck trying to get up. The stones crumble away so.""Were there any dungeons?" asked Dick.
28
"I don't know," said George. "I expect so. But nobody could find them now everywhere is soovergrown."
It was indeed overgrown. Big blackberry bushes grew here and there, and a few gorse bushes forcedtheir way into gaps and corners. The coarse green grass sprang everywhere, and pink thrift grew itscushions in holes and crannies.
"Well, I think it's a perfectly lovely place," said Anne. "Perfectly and absolutely lovely!""Do you really?" said George, pleased. "I'm so glad. Look! We're right on the other side of the islandnow, facing the sea. Do you see those rocks, with those queer big birds sitting there?"The children looked. They saw some rocks sticking up, with great black shining birds sitting on themin queer positions.
"They are cormorants," said George. "They've caught plenty of fish for their dinner, and they'resitting there digesting it. Hallo they're all flying away. I wonder why!"She soon knew for, from the southwest there suddenly came an ominous rumble.
"Thunder!" said George. "That's the storm. It's coming sooner than I thought!"
5.
























































































Chapter Six WHAT THE STORM DID
Chapter Six WHAT THE STORM DID
THE four children stared out to sea. They had all been so interested in exploring the exciting oldcastle that not one of them had noticed the sudden change in the weather.
Another rumble came. It sounded like a big dog growling in the sky. Tim heard it and growled back,sounding like a small roll of thunder himself.
"My goodness, we're in for it now," said George, half-alarmed. "We can't get back in time, that'scertain. It's blowing up at top speed. Did ever you see such a change in the sky?"The sky had been blue when they started. Now it was overcast, and the clouds seemed to hang verylow indeed. They scudded along as if someone was chasing them and the wind howled round insuch a mournful way that Anne felt quite frightened.
"It's beginning to rain," said Julian, feeling an enormous drop spatter on his outstretched hand.
"We had better shelter, hadn't we, George? We shall get wet through."29
"Yes, we will in a minute," said George. "I say, just look at these big waves coming! My word, itreally is going to be a storm. Golly what a flash of lightning!"The waves were certainly beginning to run very high indeed. It was queer to see what a change hadcome over them. They swelled up, turned over as soon as they came to rocks, and then rushed up thebeach of the island with a great roar.
"I think we'd better pull our boat up higher still," said George suddenly. "It's going to be a very badstorm indeed. Sometimes these sudden summer storms are worse than a winter one."She and Julian ran to the other side of the island where they had left the boat. It was a good thing theywent, for great waves were already racing right up to it. The two children pulled the boat up almost tothe top of the low cliff and George tied it to a stout gorse bush growing there.
By now the rain was simply pelting down, and George and Julian were soaked. "I hope the othershave been sensible enough to shelter in that room that has a roof and walls," said George.
They were there all right, looking rather cold and scared. It was very dark there, for the only lightcame through the two slits of windows and the small doorway.
"Could we light a fire to make things a bit more cheerful?" said Julian, looking round. "I wonderwhere we can find some nice dry sticks?"
Almost as if they were answering the question a small crowd of jackdaws cried out wildly as theycircled in the storm. "Chack, chack, chack!""Of course! There are plenty of sticks on the ground below the tower!" cried Julian. "You knowwhere the jackdaws nest. They've dropped lots of sticks there."He dashed out into the rain and ran to the tower. He picked up an armful of sticks and ran back.
"Good," said George. "We'll be able to make a nice fire with those. Anyone got any paper to start itor matches?"
"I've got some matches," said Julian. "But nobody's got paper.""Yes," said Anne, suddenly. "The sandwiches are wrapped in paper. Let's undo them, and then wecan use the paper for the fire."
"Good idea," said George. So they undid the sandwiches, and put them neatly on a broken stone,rubbing it clean first. Then they built up a fire, with the paper underneath and the sticks arrangedcriss-cross on top.
It was fun when they lighted the paper. It flared up and the sticks at once caught fire, for they werevery old and dry. Soon there was a fine cracking fire going and the little ruined room was 30lighted by dancing flames. It was very dark outside now, for the clouds hung almost low enough totouch the top of the castle tower! And how they raced by! The wind sent them off to the northeast,roaring behind them with a noise like the sea itself.
"I've never, never heard the sea making such an awful noise," said Anne. "Never! It really sounds asif it's shouting at the top of its voice."What with the howling of the wind and the crashing of the great waves all round the little island, thechildren could hardly hear themselves speak! They had to shout at one another.
"Let's have our dinner!" yelled Dick, who was feeling terribly hungry as usual. "We can't do anythingmuch while this storm lasts."
"Yes, let's," said Anne, looking longingly at the ham sandwiches. "It will be fun to have a picnicround the fire in this dark old room. I wonder how long ago other people had a meal here. I wish Icould see them."
"Well, I don't, said Dick, looking round half-scared as if he expected to see the old-time people walkin to share their picnic. "It's quite a queer enough day without wanting things like that to happen."They all felt better when they were eating the sandwiches and drinking the ginger-beer. The fireflared up as more and more sticks caught, and gave out quite a pleasant warmth, for now that thewind had got up so strongly, the day had become cold.
"We'll take it in turn to fetch sticks," said George. But Anne didn't want to go alone. She was tryingher best not to show that she was afraid of the storm but it was more than she could do to go out ofthe cosy room into the rain and thunder by herself.
Tim didn't seem to like the storm either. He sat close by George, his ears cocked, and growledwhenever the thunder rumbled. The children fed him with titbits and he ate them eagerly, for he washungry too.
All the children had four biscuits each. "I think I shall give all mine to Tim," said George. "I didn'tbring him any of his own biscuits, and he does seem so hungry.""No, don't do that," said Julian. "We'll each give him a biscuit that will be four for him and we'llstill have three left each. That will be plenty for us.""You are really nice," said George. "Tim, don't you think they are nice?"Tim did. He licked everyone and made them laugh. Then he rolled over on his back and let Juliantickle him underneath.
31
The children fed the fire and finished their picnic. When it came to Julian's turn to get more sticks, hedisappeared out of the room into the storm. He stood and looked around, the rain wetting his barehead.
The storm seemed to be right overhead now. The lightning flashed and the thunder crashed at thesame moment. Julian was not a bit afraid of storms, but he couldn't help feeling rather over-awed atthis one. It was so magnificent. The lightning tore the sky in half almost every minute, and thethunder crashed so loudly that it sounded almost as if mountains were falling down all around!
The sea's voice could be heard as soon as the thunder stopped and that was magnificent to hear too.
The spray flew so high into the air that it wetted Julian as he stood in the centre of the ruined castle.
"I really must see what the waves are like," thought the boy. "If the spray flies right over me here,they must be simply enormous!"
He made his way out of the castle and climbed up on to part of the ruined wall that had once run allround the castle. He stood up there, looking out to the open sea. And what a sight met his eyes!
The waves were like great walls of grey-green! They dashed over the rocks that lay all around theisland, and spray flew from them, gleaming white in the stormy sky. They rolled up to the island anddashed themselves against it with such terrific force that Julian could feel the wall beneath his feettremble with the shock.
The boy looked out to sea, marvelling at the really great sight he saw. For half a moment hewondered if the sea might come right over the island itself! Then he knew that couldn't happen, for itwould have happened before. He stared at the great waves coming in and then he saw somethingrather queer.
There was something else out on the sea by the rocks besides the waves  something dark,something big, something that seemed to lurch out of the waves and settle down again. What could itbe?
"It can't be a ship," said Julian to himself, his heart beginning to beat fast as he strained his eyes tosee through the rain and the spray. "And yet it looks more like a ship than anything else. I hope it isn'ta ship. There wouldn't be anyone saved from it on this dreadful day!"He stood and watched for a while. The dark shape heaved into sight again and then sank away oncemore. Julian decided to go and tell the others. He ran back to the firelit room.
32
"George! Dick! There's something queer out on the rocks beyond the island!" he shouted, at the topof his voice. "It looks like a ship and yet it can't possibly be. Come and see!"The others stared at him in surprise, and jumped to their feet. George hurriedly flung some moresticks on the fire to keep it going, and then she and the others quickly followed Julian out into therain.
The storm seemed to be passing over a little now. The rain was not pelting down quite so hard.
The thunder was rolling a little farther off, and the lightning did not flash so often. Julian led the wayto the wall on which he had climbed to watch the sea.
Everyone climbed up to gaze out to sea. They saw a great tumbled, heaving mass of grey-greenwater, with waves rearing up everywhere. Their tops broke over the rocks and they rushed up to theisland as if they would gobble it whole. Anne slipped her arm through Julian's. She felt rather smalland scared.
"You're all right, Anne", said Julian, loudly. "Now just watch you'll see something queer in aminute."
They all watched. At first they saw nothing, for the waves reared up so high that they hid everythinga little way out. Then suddenly George saw what Julian meant.
"Gracious!" she shouted, 'it is a ship! Yes, it is! Is it being wrecked? It's a big ship not a sailing-boat, or fishing-smack!"
"Oh, is anyone in it?" wailed Anne.
The four children watched and Tim began to bark as he saw the queer dark shape lurching here andthere in the enormous waves. The sea was bringing the ship nearer to shore.
"It will be dashed on to those rocks," said Julian, suddenly. "Look there it goes!"As he spoke there came a tremendous crashing, splintering sound, and the dark shape of the shipsettled down on to the sharp teeth of the dangerous rocks on the southwest side of the island. It stayedthere, shifting only slightly as the big waves ran under it and lifted it a little.
"She's stuck there," said Julian. "She won't move now. The sea will soon be going down a bit, andthen the ship will find herself held by those rocks."As he spoke, a ray of pale sunshine came wavering out between a gap in the thinning clouds. It wasgone almost at once. "Good!" said Dick, looking upwards. "The sun will be out again soon.
We can warm ourselves then and get dry and maybe we can find out what that poor ship is. Oh 33Julian I do so hope there was nobody in it. I hope they've all taken to boats and got safely to land."The clouds thinned out a little more. The wind stopped roaring and dropped to a steady breeze.
The sun shone out again for a longer time, and the children felt its welcome warmth. They all staredat the ship on the rocks. The sun shone on it and lighted it up.
"There's something queer about it somehow," said Julian, slowly. "Something awfully queer. I'venever seen a ship quite like it."
George was staring at it with a strange look in her eyes. She turned to face the three children, andthey were astonished to see the bright gleam in her blue eyes. The girl looked almost too excited tospeak.
"What is it?" asked Julian, catching hold of her hand.
"Julian oh Julian it's my wreck!" she cried, in a high excited voice. "Don't you see what'shappened! The storm has lifted the ship up from the bottom of the sea, and has lodged it on thoserocks. It's my wreck!"
The others saw at once that she was right. It was the old wrecked ship! No wonder it looked queer.
No wonder it looked so old and dark, and such a strange shape. It was the wreck, lifted high out of itssleeping-place and put on the rocks near by.
"George! We shall be able to row out and get into the wreck now!" shouted Julian. "We shall be ableto explore it from end to end. We may find the boxes of gold. Oh, George!"
6.
































































Chapter Seven BACK TO KIRRIN COTTAGE
Chapter Seven BACK TO KIRRIN COTTAGE
THE four children were so tremendously surprised and excited that for a minute or two they didn'tsay a word. They just stared at the dark hulk of the old wreck, imagining what they might find. ThenJulian clutched George's arm and pressed it tightly.
"Isn't this wonderful?" he said. "Oh, George, isn't it an extraordinary thing to happen?"Still George said nothing, but stared at the wreck, all kinds of thoughts racing through her mind.
Then she turned to Julian.
34
"If only the wreck is still mine now it's thrown up like this!" she said. "I don't know if wrecks belongto the queen or anyone, like lost treasure does. But after all, the ship did belong to our family.
Nobody bothered much about it when it was down under the sea but do you suppose people willstill let me have it for my own now it's thrown up?""Well, don't let's tell anyone!" said Dick.
"Don't be silly," said George. "One of the fishermen is sure to see it when his ship goes slipping outof the bay. The news will soon be out."
"Well then, we'd better explore it thoroughly ourselves before anyone else does!" said Dick, eagerly.
"No one knows about it yet. Only us. Can't we explore it as soon as the waves go down a bit?""We can't wade out to the rocks, if that's what you mean," said George. "We might get there by boat but we couldn't possibly risk it now, while the waves are so big. They won't go down today, that'scertain. The wind is still too strong."
"Well, what about tomorrow morning, early?" said Julian. "Before anyone has got to know about it? Ibet if only we can get into the ship first, we can find anything there is to find!""Yes, I expect we could," said George. "I told you divers had been down and explored the ship asthoroughly as they could but of course it is difficult to do that properly under water. We might findsomething they've missed. Oh, this is like a dream. I can't believe it's true that my old wreck hascome up from the bottom of the sea like that!"The sun was now properly out, and the children's wet clothes dried in its hot rays. They steamed inthe sun, and even Tim's coat sent up a mist too. He didn't seem to like the wreck at all, but growleddeeply at it.
"You are funny, Tim," said George, patting him. "It won't hurt you! What do you think it is?""He probably thinks it's a whale," said Anne with a laugh. "Oh, George this is the most excitingday of my life! Oh, can't we possibly take the boat and see if we can get to the wreck?""No, we can't," said George. "I only wish we could. But it's quite impossible, Anne. For one thing Idon't think the wreck has quite settled down on the rocks yet, and maybe it won't till the tide has gonedown. I can see it lifting a little still when an extra big wave comes. It would be dangerous to go intoit yet. And for another thing I don't want my boat smashed to bits on the rocks, and us thrown intothat wild water! That's what would happen. We must wait till 35tomorrow. It's a good idea to come early. I expect lots of grown-ups will think it's their business toexplore it."
The children watched the old wreck for a little time longer and then went all round the island again. Itwas certainly not very large, but it really was exciting, with its rocky little coast, its quiet inlet wheretheir boat was, the ruined castle, the circling jackdaws, and the scampering rabbits everywhere.
"I do love it," said Anne. "I really do. It's just small enough to feel like an island. Most islands are toobig to feel like islands. I mean, Britain is an island, but nobody living on it could possibly know itunless they were told. Now this island really feels like one because wherever you are you can see tothe other side of it. I love it."
George felt very happy. She had often been on her island before, but always alone except for Tim.
She had always vowed that she never, never would take anyone there, because it would spoil herisland for her. But it hadn't been spoilt. It had made it much nicer. For the first time George began tounderstand that sharing pleasures doubles their joy.
"We'll wait till the waves go down a bit then we'll go back home," she said. "I rather think there'ssome more rain coming, and we'll only get soaked through. We shan't be back till tea-time as it is,because we'll have a long pull against the out-going tide."All the children felt a little tired after the excitements of the morning. They said very little as theyrowed home. Everyone took turns at rowing except Anne, who was not strong enough with the oarsto row against the tide. They looked back at the island as they left it. They couldn't see the wreckbecause that was on the opposite side, facing the open sea.
"It's just as well it's there," said Julian. "No one can see it yet. Only when a boat goes out to fish willit be seen. And we shall be there as early as any boat goes out! I vote we get up at dawn.""Well, that's pretty early," said George. "Can you wake up? I'm often out at dawn, but you're not usedto it."
"Of course we can wake up," said Julian. "Well here we are back at the beach again and I'm jollyglad. My arms are awfully tired and I'm so hungry I could eat a whole larderful of things.""Woof," said Tim, quite agreeing.
"I'll have to take Tim to Alf," said George, jumping out of the boat. "You get the boat in, Julian.
I'll join you in a few minutes."
36
It wasn't long before all four were sitting down to a good tea. Aunt Fanny had baked new scones forthem, and had made a ginger cake with black treacle. It was dark brown and sticky to eat. Thechildren finished it all up and said it was the nicest they had ever tasted.
"Did you have an exciting day?" asked their aunt.
"Oh yes!" said Anne, eagerly. "The storm was grand. It threw up ..."Julian and Dick both kicked her under the table. George couldn't reach her or she would mostcertainly have kicked her too. Anne stared at the boys angrily, with tears in her eyes.
"Now what's the matter?" asked Aunt Fanny. "Did somebody kick you, Anne? Well, really, thiskicking under the table has got to stop. Poor Anne will be covered with bruises. What did the seathrow up, dear?"
"It threw up the most enormous waves," said Anne, looking defiantly at the others. She knew theyhad thought she was going to say that the sea had thrown up the wreck but they were wrong! Theyhad kicked her for nothing!
"Sorry for kicking you, Anne," said Julian. "My foot sort of slipped.""So did mine," said Dick. "Yes, Aunt Fanny, it was a magnificent sight on the island. The wavesraced up that little inlet, and we had to take our boat almost up to the top of the low cliff there.""I wasn't really afraid of the storm," said Anne. "In fact, I wasn't really as afraid of it as Ti ..."Everyone knew perfectly well that Anne was going to mention Timothy, and they all interrupted herat once, speaking very loudly. Julian managed to get a kick in again.
"Oooh!" said Anne.
"The rabbits were so tame," said Julian, loudly.
"We watched the cormorants," said Dick, and George joined in too, talking at the same time.
"The jackdaws made such a noise, they said 'Chack, chack, chack,' all the time.""Well, really, you sound like jackdaws yourselves, talking all at once like this!" said Aunt Fanny,with a laugh. "Now, have you all finished? Very well, then, go and wash your sticky handsyes, George, I know they're sticky, because I made that gingerbread, and you've had three slices!
Then you had better go and play quietly in the other room, because it's raining, and you can't go out.
But don't disturb your father, George. He's very busy."The children went to wash. "Idiot!" said Julian to Anne. "Nearly gave us away twice!""I didn't mean what you thought I meant the first time!" began Anne indignantly.
George interrupted her.
37
"I'd rather you gave the secret of the wreck away than my secret about Tim," she said. "I do thinkyou've got a careless tongue."
"Yes, I have," said Anne, sorrowfully. "I think I'd better not talk at meal-times any more. I love Timso much I just can't seem to help wanting to talk about him."They all went to play in the other room. Julian turned a table upside down with a crash. "We'll play atwrecks," he said. "This is the wreck. Now we're going to explore it."The door flew open and an angry, frowning face looked in. It was George's father!
"What was that noise?" he said. "George! Did you overturn that table?""I did," said Julian. "I'm sorry, sir. I quite forgot you were working.""Any more noise like that and I shall keep you all in bed tomorrow!" said his Uncle Quentin.
"Georgina, keep your cousins quiet."
The door shut and Uncle Quentin went out. The children looked at one another.
"Your father's awfully fierce, isn't he?" said Julian. "I'm sorry I made that row. I didn't think.""We'd better do something really quiet," said George. "Or he'll keep his word  and we'll findourselves in bed tomorrow just when we want to explore the wreck."This was a terrible thought. Anne went to get one of her dolls to play with. She had managed to bringquite a number after all. Julian fetched a book. George took up a beautiful little boat she was carvingout of a piece of wood. Dick lay back on a chair and thought of the exciting wreck.
The rain poured down steadily, and everyone hoped it would have stopped by the morning.
"We'll have to be up most awfully early," said Dick, yawning. "What about going to bed in good timetonight? I'm tired with all that rowing."In the ordinary way none of the children liked going to bed early but with such an exciting thing tolook forward to, early-bed seemed different that night.
"It will make the time go quickly," said Anne, putting down her doll. "Shall we go now?""Whatever do you suppose Mother would say if we went just after tea?" said George. "She'd think wewere all ill. No, let's go after supper. We'll just say we're tired with rowing which is perfectly true and we'll get a good night's sleep, and be ready for our adventure tomorrow morning. And it is anadventure, you know. It isn't many people that have the chance of exploring an old, old wreck likethat, which has always been at the bottom of the sea!"38
So, by eight o'clock, all the children were in bed, rather to Aunt Fanny's surprise. Anne fell asleep atonce. Julian and Dick were not long but George lay awake for some time, thinking of her island,her wreck and, of course, her beloved dog!
"I must take Tim too," she thought, as she fell asleep. "We can't leave old Tim out of this. He shallshare in the adventure too!
7.































































Chapter Eight EXPLORING THE WRECK
Chapter Eight EXPLORING THE WRECK
JULIAN woke first the next morning. He awoke just as the sun was slipping over the horizon in theeast, and filling the sky with gold. Julian stared at the ceiling for a moment, and then, in a rush, heremembered all that had happened the day before. He sat up straight in bed and whispered as loudlyas he could.
"Dick! Wake up! We're going to see the wreck! Do wake up!"Dick woke and grinned at Julian. A feeling of happiness crept over him. They were going on anadventure. He leapt out of bed and ran quietly to the girls' room. He opened the door. Both the girlswere fast asleep, Anne curled up like a dormouse under the sheet.
Dick shook George and then dug Anne in the back. They awoke and sat up. "Buck up!"whispered Dick. "The sun is just rising. We'll have to hurry."George's blue eyes shone as she dressed. Anne skipped about quietly, finding her few clothesjust a bathing suit, jeans and jersey and rubber shoes for her feet. It wasn't many minutes beforethey were all ready.
"Now, not a creak on the stairs not a cough or a giggle!" warned Julian, as they stood together onthe landing. Anne was a dreadful giggler, and had often given secret plans away by her suddenexplosive choke. But this time the little girl was as solemn as the others, and as careful.
They crept down the stairs and undid the little front door. Not a sound was made. They shut the doorquietly and made their way down the garden path to the gate. The gate always creaked, so theyclimbed over it instead of opening it.
39
The sun was now shining brightly, though it was still low in the eastern sky. It felt warm already.
The sky was so beautifully blue that Anne couldn't help feeling it had been freshly washed! "It looksjust as if it had come back from the laundry," she told the others.
They squealed with laughter at her. She did say odd things at times. But they knew what she meant.
The day had a lovely new feeling about it - the clouds were so pink in the bright blue sky, and the sealooked so smooth and fresh. It was impossible to imagine that it had been so rough the day before.
George got her boat. Then she went to get Tim, while the boys hauled the boat down to the sea.
Alf, the fisher-boy, was surprised to see George so early. He was about to go with his father, fishing.
He grinned at George.
"You going fishing, too?" he said to her. "My, wasn't that a storm yesterday! I thought you'd becaught in it."
"We were," said George. "Come on, Tim! Come on!"Tim was very pleased to see George so early. He capered round her as she ran back to the others,almost tripping her up as she went. He leapt into the boat as soon as he saw it, and stood at the stern,his red tongue out, his tail wagging violently.
"I wonder his tail keeps on," said Anne, looking at it. "One day, Timothy, you'll wag it right off."They set off to the island. It was easy to row now, because the sea was so calm. They came to theisland, and rowed around it to the other side.
And there was the wreck, piled high on some sharp rocks! It had settled down now and did not stir aswaves slid under it. It lay a little to one side, and the broken mast, now shorter than before, stuck outat an angle.
"There she is," said Julian, in excitement. "Poor old wreck! I guess she's a bit more battered now.
What a noise she made when she went crashing on to those rocks yesterday!""How do we get to her?" asked Anne, looking at the mass of ugly, sharp rocks all around. But Georgewas not at all dismayed. She knew almost every inch of the coast around her little island.
She pulled steadily at the oars and soon came near to the rocks in which the great wreck rested.
The children looked at the wreck from their boat. It was big, much bigger than they had imaginedwhen they had peered at it from the top of the water. It was encrusted with shellfish of some kind, andstrands of brown and green seaweed hung down. It smelt queer. It had great holes in its sides,showing where it had battered against rocks. There were holes in the deck too.
40
Altogether it looked a sad and forlorn old ship but to the four children it was the most excitingthing in the whole world.
They rowed to the rocks on which the wreck lay. The tide washed over them. George took a lookround.
"We'll tie our boat up to the wreck itself," she said. "And we'll get on to the deck quite easily byclimbing up the side. Look, Julian! throw this loop of rope over that broken bit of wood there,sticking out from the side."
Julian did as he was told. The rope tightened and the boat was held in position. Then Georgeclambered up the side of the wreck like a monkey. She was a marvel at climbing. Julian and Dickfollowed her, but Anne had to be helped up. Soon all four were standing on the slanting deck. It wasslippery with seaweed, and the smell was very strong indeed. Anne didn't like it.
"Well, this was the deck," said George, "and that's where the men got up and down." She pointed to alarge hole. They went to it and looked down. The remains of an iron ladder were still there.
George looked at it.
"I think it's still strong enough to hold us," she said. I'll go first. Anyone got a torch? It looks prettydark down there."
Julian had a torch. He handed it to George. The children became rather quiet. It was mysterioussomehow to look down into the dark inside of the big ship. What would they find? George switchedon the torch and then swung herself down the ladder. The others followed.
The light from the torch showed a very queer sight. The under-parts of the ship were low-ceilinged,made of thick oak. The children had to bend their heads to get about. It seemed as if there were placesthat might have been cabins, though it was difficult to tell now, for everything was so battered, sea-drenched and seaweedy. The smell was really horrid, though it was mostly of drying seaweed.
The children slipped about on the seaweed as they went round the inside of the ship. It didn't seem sobig inside after all. There was a big hold under the cabins, which the children saw by the light of theirtorch.
"That's where the boxes of gold would have been kept, I expect," said Julian. But there was nothingin the hold except water and fish! The children couldn't go down because the water was too deep.
One or two barrels floated in the water, but they had burst open and were quite empty.
41
"I expect they were water-barrels, or barrels of pork or biscuit," said George. "Let's go round theother part of the ship again where the cabins are. Isn't it strange to see bunks there that sailors haveslept in and look at that old wooden chair. Fancy it still being here after all these years!
Look at the things on those hooks too they are all rusty now, and covered with seaweedy stuffbut they must have been the cook's pans and dishes!"It was a very queer trip round the old wreck. The children were all on the look-out for boxes whichmight contain bars of gold but there didn't seem to be one single box of any kind anywhere!
They came to a rather bigger cabin than the others. It had a bunk in one corner, in which a large crabrested. An old bit of furniture looking rather like a tablet with two legs, all encrusted with greyishshells, lay against the bunk. Wooden shelves, festooned with grey-green seaweed, hung crookedly onthe walls of the cabin.
"This must have been the captain's own cabin," said Julian. "It's the biggest one. Look, what's that inthe corner?"
"An old cup!" said Anne, picking it up. "And here's half of a saucer. I expect the captain was sittinghere having a cup of tea when the ship went down."This made the children feel rather queer. It was dark and smelly in the little cabin, and the floor waswet and slippery to their feet. George began to feel that her wreck was really more pleasant sunkunder the water than raised above it!
"Let's go," she said, with a shiver. "I don't like it much. It is exciting, I know  but it's a bitfrightening too."
They turned to go. Julian flashed his torch round the little cabin for the last time. He was about toswitch it off and follow the others up to the deck above when he caught sight of something that madehim stop. He flashed his torch on to it, and then called to the others.
"I say! Wait a bit. There's a cupboard here in the wall. Let's see if there's anything in it!"The others turned back and looked. They saw what looked like a small cupboard let in level with thewall of the cabin. What had caught Julian's eye was the keyhole. There was no key there, though.
"There just might be something inside," said Julian. He tried to prise open the wooden door with hisfingers, but it wouldn't move. "It's locked," he said. "Of course it would be!"42
"I expect the lock is rotten by now," said George, and she tried too. Then she took out her big strongpocket-knife and inserted it between the cupboard door and the cabin-wall. She forced back the blade and the lock of the cupboard suddenly snapped! As she had said, it was quite rotten. The doorswung open, and the children saw a shelf inside with a few curious things on it.
There was a wooden box, swollen with the wet sea-water in which it had lain for years. There weretwo or three things that looked like old, pulpy books. There was some sort of glass drinking-vessel,cracked in half and two or three funny objects so spoilt by sea-water that no one could possibly saywhat they were.
"Nothing very interesting except the box," said Julian, and he picked it up. "Anyway, I expect thatwhatever is inside is ruined. But we may as well try and open it."He and George tried their best to force the lock of the old wooden box. On the top of it were stampedinitialsH.J. K.
"I expect those were the captain's initials," said Dick.
"No, they were the initials of my great- great- great- grandfather!" said George, her eyes shiningsuddenly. "I've heard all about him. His name was Henry John Kirrin. This was his ship, you know.
This must have been his very-private box in which he kept his old papers or diaries. Oh, we simplymust open it!"
But it was quite impossible to force the lid up with the tools they had there. They soon gave it up, andJulian picked up the box to carry it to the boat.
"We'll open it at home," he said, his voice sounding rather excited. "We'll get a hammer orsomething, and get it open somehow. Oh, George this really is a find!"They all of them felt that they really had something mysterious in their possession. Was thereanything inside the box and if so, what would it be? They longed to get home and open it!
They went up on deck, climbing the old iron ladder. As soon as they got there they saw that othersbesides themselves had discovered that the wreck had been thrown up from the bottom of the sea!
"Golly! Half the fishing-smacks of the bay have discovered it!" cried Julian, looking round at thefishing-boats that had come as near as they dared to the wreck. The fishermen were looking at thewreck in wonder. When they saw the children on board they halloo-ed loudly.
"Ahoy there! What's that ship?"
"It's the old wreck!" yelled back Julian. "She was thrown up yesterday in the storm!"43
"Don't say any more," said George, frowning. "It's my wreck. I don't want sightseers on it!"So no more was said, and the four children got into their boat and rowed home as fast as they could.
It was past their breakfast-time. They might get a good scolding. They might even be sent to bed byGeorge's fierce father but what did they care? They had explored the wreckand had come awaywith a box which might containwell, if not bars of gold, one small bar, perhaps!
They did get a scolding. They had to go without half their breakfast, too, because Uncle Quentin saidthat children who came in so late didn't deserve hot bacon and eggs only toast and marmalade. Itwas very sad.
They hid the box under the bed in the boys' room. Tim had been left with the fisher-boy or rather,had been tied up in his back yard, for Alf had gone out fishing, and was even now gazing from hisfather's boat at the strange wreck.
"We can make a bit of money taking sightseers out to this wreck," said Alf. And before the day wasout scores of interested people had seen the old wreck from the decks of motor-boats and fishing-smacks.
George was furious about it. But she couldn't do anything. After all, as Julian said, anybody couldhave a look!
8.
















































H.J.K.















Chapter Nine THE BOX FROM THE WRECK
Chapter Nine THE BOX FROM THE WRECK
THE first thing that the children did after breakfast was to fetch the precious box and take it out to thetool-shed in the garden. They were simply longing to force it open. All of them secretly felt certainthat it would hold treasure of some sort.
Julian looked round for a tool. He found a chisel and decided that would be just the thing to force thebox open. He tried, but the tool slipped and jabbed his fingers. Then he tried other things, but the boxobstinately refused to open. The children stared at it crossly.
"I know what to do," said Anne at last. "Let's take it to the top of the house and throw it down to theground. It would burst open then, I expect."44
The others thought over the idea. "It might be worth trying," said Julian. "The only thing is it mightbreak or spoil anything inside the box."
But there didn't seem any other way to open the box, so Julian carried it up to the top of the house.
He went to the attic and opened the window there. The others were down below, waiting.
Julian hurled the box out of the window as violently as he could. It flew through the air and landedwith a terrific crash on the crazy paving below.
At once the french window there opened and their Uncle Quentin came out like a bullet from a gun.
"Whatever are you doing?" he cried. "Surely you aren't throwing things at each other out of thewindow? What's this on the ground?"
The children looked at the box. It had burst open, and lay on the ground, showing a tin lining that waswaterproof. Whatever was in the box would not be spoilt! It would be quite dry!
Dick ran to pick it up.
"I said, what's this on the ground?" shouted his uncle and moved towards him.
"It's it's something that belongs to us," said Dick, going red.
"Well, I shall take it away from you," said his uncle. "Disturbing me like this! Give it to me.
Where did you get it?"
Nobody answered. Uncle Quentin frowned till his glasses nearly fell off. "Where did you get it?"he barked, glaring at poor Anne, who was nearest.
"Out of the wreck," stammered the little girl, scared.
"Out of the wreck!" said her uncle, in surprise. "The old wreck that was thrown up yesterday? I heardabout that. Do you mean to say you've been in it?""Yes," said Dick. Julian joined them at that moment, looking worried. It would be too awful if hisuncle took the box just as they got it open. But that was exactly what he did do!
"Well, this box may contain something important," he said, and he took it from Dick's hands.
"You've no right to go prying about in that old wreck. You might take something that mattered.""Well, it's my wreck," said George, in a defiant tone. "Please, Father, let us have the box. We'd justgot it opened. We thought it might hold a gold bar or something like that!""A gold bar!" said her father, with a snort. "What a baby you are! This small box would never hold athing like that! It's much more likely to contain particulars of what happened to the bars! I 45have always thought that the gold was safely delivered somewhere and that the ship, empty of itsvaluable cargo, got wrecked as it left the bay!""Oh, Father please, please let us have our box," begged George, almost in tears. She suddenly feltcertain that it did contain papers that might tell them what had happened to the gold. But withoutanother word her father turned and went into the house, carrying the box, burst open and cracked, itstin lining showing through under his arm.
Anne burst into tears. "Don't blame me for telling him we got it from the wreck," she sobbed.
"Please don't. He glared at me so. I just had to tell him.""All right, Baby," said Julian, putting his arm round Anne. He looked furious. He thought it was veryunfair of his uncle to take the box like that. "Listen I'm not going to stand this. We'll get hold ofthat box somehow and look into it. I'm sure your father won't bother himself with it, George he'llstart writing his book again and forget all about it. I'll wait my chance and slip into his study and getit, even if it means a spanking if I'm discovered!""Good!" said George. "We'll all keep a watch and see if Father goes out."So they took it in turns to keep watch, but most annoyingly their Uncle Quentin remained in his studyall the morning. Aunt Fanny was surprised to see one or two children always about the garden thatday, instead of down on the beach.
"Why don't you all keep together and bathe or do something?" she said. "Have you quarrelled withone another?"
"No," said Dick. "Of course not." But he didn't say why they were in the garden!
"Doesn't your father ever go out?" he said to George, when it was her turn to keep watch. "I don'tthink he leads a very healthy life."
"Scientists never do," said George, as if she knew all about them. "But I tell you what he may go tosleep this afternoon! He sometimes does!"Julian was left behind in the garden that afternoon. He sat down under a tree and opened a book.
Soon he heard a curious noise that made him look up. He knew at once what it was!
"That's Uncle Quentin snoring!" he said in excitement. "It is! Oh I wonder if I could possibly creepin at the french windows and get our box!"He stole to the windows and looked in. One was a little way open and Julian opened it a little more.
He saw his uncle lying back in a comfortable arm-chair, his mouth a little open, his eyes closed, fastasleep! Every time he took a breath, he snored.
46
"Well, he really does look sound asleep," thought the boy. "And there's the box, just behind him, onthat table. I'll risk it. I bet I'll get an awful spanking if I'm caught, but I can't help that!"He stole in. His uncle still snored. He tiptoed by him to the table behind his uncle's chair. He tookhold of the box.
And then a bit of the broken wood of the box fell to the floor with a thud! His uncle stirred in hischair and opened his eyes. Quick as lightning the boy crouched down behind his uncle's chair, hardlybreathing.
"What's that?" he heard his uncle say. Julian didn't move. Then his uncle settled down again and shuthis eyes. Soon there was the sound of his rhythmic snoring!
"Hurrah!" thought Julian. "He's off again!"Quietly he stood up, holding the box. On tiptoe he crept to the French window. He slipped out andran softly down the garden path. He didn't think of hiding the box. All he wanted to do was to get tothe other children and show them what he had done!
He ran to the beach where the others were lying in the sun. "Hi!" he yelled. "Hi! I've got it! I've gotit!"
They all sat up with a jerk, thrilled to see the box in Julian's arms. They forgot all about the otherpeople on the beach. Julian dropped down on the sand and grinned.
"Your father went to sleep," he said to George. "Tim, don't lick me like that! And George, I went in and a bit of the box dropped on the floor and it woke him up!""Golly!" said George. "What happened?"
"I crouched down behind his chair till he went to sleep again," said Julian. "Then I fled. Nowlet's see what's in here. I don't believe your father's even tried to see!"He hadn't. The tin lining was intact. It had rusted with the years of lying in the wet, and the lid was sotightly fitted down that it was almost impossible to move it.
But once George began to work at it with her pocket-knife, scraping away the rust, it began to loosen and in about a quarter-of-an-hour it came off!
The children bent eagerly over it. Inside lay some old papers and a book of some kind with a blackcover. Nothing else at all. No bar of gold. No treasure. Everyone felt a little bit disappointed.
"It's all quite dry," said Julian, surprised. "Not a bit damp. The tin lining kept everything perfect."47
He picked up the book and opened it. "It's a diary your great-great-great-grandfather kept of the ship'svoyages," he said. "I can hardly read the writing. It's so small and funny."George picked up one of the papers. It was made of thick parchment, quite yellow with age. Shespread it out on the sand and looked at it. The others glanced at it too, but they couldn't make outwhat it was at all. It seemed to be a kind of map.
"Perhaps it's a map of some place he had to go to," said Julian. But suddenly George's hands began toshake as she held the map, and her eyes gleamed brilliantly as she looked up at the others. Sheopened her mouth but didn't speak.
"What's the matter?" said Julian, curiously. "What's up? Have you lost your tongue?"George shook her head and then began to speak with a rush. "Julian! Do you know what this is?
It's a map of my old castle of Kirrin Castle when it wasn't a ruin. And it shows the dungeons!
And look just look what's written in this corner of the dungeons!"She put a trembling finger on one part of the map. The others leaned over to see what it wasand, printed in old-fashioned letters was a curious word.
INGOTS
"Ingots!" said Anne, puzzled. "What does that mean? I've never heard that word before."But the two boys had. "Ingots!" cried Dick. "Why that must be the bars of gold. They were calledingots."
"Most bars of metal are called ingots," said Julian, going red with excitement. "But as we know thereis gold missing from that ship, then it really looks as if ingots here meant bars of gold. Oh golly! Tothink they may still be hidden somewhere under Kirrin Castle. George! George! Isn't it terribly,awfully exciting?"
George nodded. She was trembling all over with excitement. "If only we could find it!" shewhispered. "If only we could!"
"We'll have a jolly good hunt for it," said Julian. "It will be awfully difficult because the castle is inruins now, and so overgrown. But somehow or other we'll find those ingots. What a lovely word.
Ingots! Ingots! Ingots!"
It sounded somehow more exciting than the word gold. Nobody spoke about gold any more.
They talked about the Ingots. Tim couldn't make out what the excitement was at all. He wagged histail and tried hard to lick first one and then another of the children, but for once in a way not 48one of them paid any attention to him! He simply couldn't understand it, and after a while he wentand sat down by himself with his back to the children, and his ears down.
"Oh, do look at poor Timothy!" said George. "He can't understand our excitement. Tim! Tim, darling,it's all right, you're not in disgrace or anything. Oh, Tim, we've got the most wonderful secret in thewhole world."
Tim bounded up, his tail wagging, pleased to be taken notice of once more. He put his big paw on theprecious map, and the four children shouted at him at once.
"Golly! We can't have that torn!" said Julian. Then he looked at the others and frowned. "What arewe going to do about the box?" he said. "I mean George's father will be sure to miss it, won't he?
We'll have to give it back."
"Well, can't we take out the map and keep it?" said Dick. "He won't know it was there if he hasn'tlooked in the box. And it's pretty certain he hasn't. The other things don't matter much they areonly that old diary, and a few letters."
"To be on the safe side, let's take a copy of the map," said Dick. "Then we can put the real map backand replace the box."
They all voted that a very good idea. They went back to Kirrin Cottage and traced out the mapcarefully. They did it in the tool-shed because they didn't want anyone to see them. It was a queermap. It was in three parts.
"This part shows the dungeons under the castle," said Julian. "And this shows a plan of the groundfloor of the castle and this shows the top part. My word, it was a fine place in those days! Thedungeons run all under the castle. I bet they were pretty awful places. I wonder how people got downto them."
"We'll have to study the map a bit more and see," said George. "It all looks rather muddled to us atpresent but once we take the map over to the castle and study it there, we may be able to make outhow to get down to the hidden dungeons. Ooooh! I don't expect any children ever had such anadventure as this."
Julian put the traced map carefully into his jeans pocket. He didn't mean it to leave him. It was veryprecious. Then he put the real map back into the box and looked towards the house. "What aboutputting it back now?" he said. "Maybe your father is still asleep, George."49
But he wasn't. He was awake. Luckily he hadn't missed the box! He came into the dining-room tohave tea with the family, and Julian took his chance. He muttered an excuse, slipped away from thetable, and replaced the box on the table behind his uncle's chair!
He winked at the others when he came back. They felt relieved. They were all scared of UncleQuentin, and were not at all anxious to be in his bad books. Anne didn't say one word during thewhole of the meal. She was so terribly afraid she might give something away, either about Tim or thebox. The others spoke very little too. While they were at tea the telephone rang and Aunt Fanny wentto answer it.
She soon came back. "It's for you, Quentin," she said. "Apparently the old wreck has caused quite alot of excitement, and there are men from a London paper who want to ask you questions about it.""Tell them I'll see them at six," said Uncle Quentin. The children looked at one another in alarm.
They hoped that their uncle wouldn't show the box to the newspapermen. Then the secret of thehidden gold might come out!
"What a mercy we took a tracing of the map!" said Julian, after tea. "But I'm jolly sorry now we leftthe real map in the box. Someone else may guess our secret!"
9.













































15
































Chapter Ten AN ASTONISHING OFFER
Chapter Ten AN ASTONISHING OFFER
THE next morning the papers were full of the extraordinary way in which the old wreck had beenthrown up out of the sea. The newspaper men had got out of the children's uncle the tale of the wreckand the lost gold, and some of them even managed to land on Kirrin Island and take pictures of theold ruined castle.
George was furious. "It's my castle!" she stormed to her mother. "It's my island. You said it could bemine. You did, you did!"
"I know, George dear," said her mother. "But you really must be sensible. It can't hurt the island to belanded on, and it can't hurt the castle to be photographed.""But I don't want it to be," said George, her face dark and sulky. "It's mine. And the wreck is mine.
You said so."
50
"Well, I didn't know it was going to be thrown up like that," said her mother. "Do be sensible,George. What can it possibly matter if people go to look at the wreck? You can't stop them."George couldn't stop them, but that didn't make her any the less angry about it. The children wereastonished at the interest that the cast-up wreck caused, and because of that, Kirrin Island became anobject of great interest too. Sightseers from the places all around came to see it, and the fishermenmanaged to find the little inlet and land the people there. George sobbed with rage, and Julian tried tocomfort her.
"Listen, George! No one knows our secret yet. We'll wait till this excitement has died down, and thenwe'll go to Kirrin Castle and find the ingots.""If someone doesn't find them first," said George, drying her eyes. She was furious with herself forcrying, but she really couldn't help it.
"How could they?" said Julian. "No one has seen inside the box yet! I'm going to wait my chance andget that map out before anyone sees it!"
But he didn't have a chance, because something dreadful happened. Uncle Quentin sold the old boxto a man who bought antique things! He came out from his study, beaming, a day or two after theexcitement began, and told Aunt Fanny and the children.
"I've struck a very good bargain with that man," he said to his wife. "You know that old tin-lined boxfrom the wreck? Well, this fellow collects curious things like that, and he gave me a very good pricefor it. Very good indeed. More even than I could expect for the writing of my book!
As soon as he saw the old map there and the old diary he said at once that he would buy the wholecollection."
The children stared at him in horror. The box was sold! Now someone would study that map andperhaps jump to what 'ingots' meant. The story of the lost gold had been put into all the newspapersnow. Nobody could fail to know what the map showed if they studied it carefully.
The children did not dare to tell Uncle Quentin what they knew. It was true he was all smiles now,and was promising to buy them new shrimping-nets, and a raft for themselves but he was such achangeable person. He might fly into a furious temper if he heard that Julian had taken the box andopened it himself, while his uncle was sleeping.
When they were alone the children discussed the whole matter. It seemed very serious indeed tothem. They half-wondered if they should let Aunt Fanny into the secretbut it was such a precioussecret, and so marvellous, that they felt they didn't want to give it away to anyone at all.
51
"Now listen!" said Julian, at last. "We'll ask Aunt Fanny if we can go to Kirrin Island and spend a dayor two there sleep there at night too, I mean. That will give us a little time to poke round and seewhat we can find. The sightseers won't come after a day or two, I'm sure. Maybe we'll get in beforeanyone tumbles to our secret. After all, the man who brought the box may not even guess that themap shows Kirrin Castle."
They felt more cheerful. It was so awful to do nothing. As soon as they had planned to act, they feltbetter. They decided to ask their aunt the next day if they might go and spend the week-end at thecastle. The weather was gloriously fine, and it would be great fun. They could take plenty of foodwith them.
When they went to ask Aunt Fanny, Uncle Quentin was with her. He was all smiles again, and evenclapped Julian on the back. "Well!" he said. "What's this deputation for?""We just wanted to ask Aunt Fanny something," said Julian, politely. "Aunt Fanny, as the weather isso fine, do you think you would let us go for the week-end to Kirrin Castle, please, and spend a dayor two there on the island? You can't think how we would love to!""Well what do you think, Quentin?" asked their aunt, turning to her husband.
"If they want to, they can," said Uncle Quentin. "They won't have a chance to, soon. My dears, wehave had a marvellous offer for Kirrin Island! A man wants to buy it, rebuild the castle as a hotel, andmake it into a proper holiday place! What do you think of that?"All four children stared at the smiling man, shocked and horrified. Somebody was going to buy theisland! Had their secret been discovered? Did the man want to buy the castle because he had read themap, and knew there was plenty of gold hidden there?
George gave a curious choke. Her eyes burned as if they were on fire. "Mother! You can't sell myisland! You can't sell my castle! I won't let them be sold."Her father frowned. "Don't be silly, Georgina," he said. "It isn't really yours. You know that. Itbelongs to your mother, and naturally she would like to sell it if she could. We need the money verybadly. You will be able to have a great many nice things once we sell the island.""I don't want nice things!" cried poor George. "My castle and my island are the nicest things I couldever have. Mother! Mother! You know you said I could have them. You know you did! I believedyou."
"George dear, I did mean you to have them to play on, when I thought they couldn't possibly beworth anything," said her mother, looking distressed. "But now things are different. Your father 52has been offered quite a good sum, far more than we ever thought of getting and we really can'tafford to turn it down."
"So you only gave me the island when you thought it wasn't worth anything," said George, her facewhite and angry. "As soon as it is worth money you take it away again. I think that's horrid.
It it isn't honourable."
"That's enough, Georgina," said her father, angrily. "Your mother is guided by me. You're only achild. Your mother didn't really mean what she said it was only to please you. But you know wellenough you will share in the money we get and have anything you want.""I won't touch a penny!" said George, in a low, choking voice. "You'll be sorry you sold it."The girl turned and stumbled out of the room. The others felt very sorry for her. They knew what shewas feeling. She took things so very seriously. Julian thought she didn't understand grownups verywell. It wasn't a bit of good fighting grown-ups. They could do exactly as they liked. If they wantedto take away George's island and castle, they could. If they wanted to sell it, they could! But whatUncle Quentin didn't know was the fact that there might be a store of gold-ingots there! Julian staredat his uncle and wondered whether to warn him. Then he decided not to. There was just a chance thatthe four children could find the gold first!
"When are you selling the island, Uncle?" he asked quietly.
"The deeds will be signed in about a week's time," was the answer. "So if you really want to spend aday or two there, you'd better do so quickly, for after that you may not get permission from the newowners."
"Was it the man who bought the old box who wants to buy the island?" asked Julian.
"Yes", said his uncle. "I was a little surprised myself, for I thought he was just a buyer of old things.
It was astonishing to me that he should get the idea of buying the island to rebuild the castle as ahotel. Still, I dare say there will be big money in running an hotel there very romantic, staying on alittle island like that people will like it. I'm no businessman myself, and I certainly shouldn't care toinvest my money in a place like Kirrin Island. But I should think he knows what he is doing allright."
"Yes, he certainly does," thought Julian to himself, as he went out of the room with Dick and Anne.
"He's read that map and has jumped to the same idea that we didthe store of hidden ingots issomewhere on that islandand he's going to get it! He doesn't want to build an hotel!
53
He's after the treasure! I expect he's offered Uncle Quentin some silly low price that poor old unclethinks is marvellous! Oh dear this is a horrible thing to happen."He went to find George. She was in the tool-shed, looking quite green. She said she felt sick.
"It's only because you're so upset," said Julian. He slipped his arm round her. For once in a wayGeorge didn't push it away. She felt comforted. Tears came into her eyes, and she angrily tried toblink them away.
"Listen, George!" said Julian. "We mustn't give up hope. We'll go to Kirrin Island tomorrow, andwe'll do our very, very best to get down into the dungeons somehow and find the ingots. We'll jollywell stay there till we do. See? Now cheer up, because we'll want your help in planning everything.
Thank goodness we took a tracing of the map."George cheered up a little. She still felt angry with her father and mother, but the thought of going toKirrin Island for a day or two, and taking Timothy too, certainly seemed rather good.
"I do think my father and mother are unkind," she said.
"Well, they're not really," said Julian, wisely. "After all, if they need money badly, they would besilly not to part with something they think is quite useless. And you know, your father did say youcould have anything you want. I know what I would ask for, if I were you!""What?" asked George.
"Timothy, of course!" said Julian. And that made George smile and cheer up tremendously!
10.














































Chapter Eleven OFF TO KIRRIN ISLAND
Chapter Eleven OFF TO KIRRIN ISLAND
JULIAN and George went to find Dick and Anne. They were waiting for them in the garden, lookingrather upset. They were glad to see Julian and George and ran to meet them.
Anne took George's hands. "I'm awfully sorry about your island, George," she said.
"So am I," said Dick. "Bad luck, old girlI mean, old boy!"George managed to smile. "I've been behaving like a girl," she said, half-ashamed. "But I did get anawful shock."
Julian told the others what they had planned. "We'll go tomorrow morning," he said. "We'll make outa list of all the things we shall need. Let's begin now."54
He took out a pencil and notebook. The others looked at him.
"Things to eat," said Dick at once. "Plenty because we'll be hungry.""Something to drink," said George. "There's no water on the island though I believe there was awell or something, years ago, that went right down below the level of the sea, and was fresh water.
Anyway, I've never found it."
"Food," wrote down Julian, "and drink." He looked at the others.
"Spades," he said solemnly, and scribbled the word down.
Anne stared in surprise.
"What for?" she asked.
"Well, we'll want to dig about when we're hunting for a way down to the dungeons," said Julian.
"Ropes," said Dick. "We may want those too.""And torches," said George. "It'll be dark in the dungeons.""Oooh!" said Anne, feeling a pleasant shiver go down her back at the thought. She had no idea whatdungeons were like, but they sounded thrilling.
"Rugs," said Dick. "We'll be cold at night if we sleep in that little old room."Julian wrote them down. "Mugs to drink from," he said. "And we'll take a few tools too we mayperhaps need them. You never know."
At the end of half an hour they had quite a nice long list, and everyone felt pleased and excited.
George was beginning to recover from her rage and disappointment. If she had been alone, and hadbrooded over everything, she would have been in an even worse sulk and temperbut somehow theothers were so calm and sensible and cheerful. It was impossible to sulk for long if she was withthem.
"I think I'd have been much nicer if I hadn't been on my own so much," thought George to herself, asshe looked at Julian's bent head. "Talking about things to other people does help a lot.
They don't seem so dreadful then; they seem more bearable and ordinary. I like my three cousinsawfully. I like them because they talk and laugh and are always cheerful and kind. I wish I was likethem. I'm sulky and bad-tempered and fierce, and no wonder Father doesn't like me and scolds me sooften. Mother's a dear, but I understand now why she says I am difficult. I'm different from mycousins they're easy to understand, and everyone likes them. I'm glad they came. They are makingme more like I ought to be."
55
This was a long thought to think, and George looked very serious while she was thinking it.
Julian looked up and caught her blue eyes fixed on him. He smiled.
"Penny for your thoughts!" he said.
"They're not worth a penny," said George, going red. "I was just thinking how nice you all areand how I wished I could be like you."
"You're an awfully nice person," said Julian, surprisingly. "You can't help being an only child.
They're always a bit queer, you know, unless they're mighty careful. You're a most interesting person,I think."
George flushed red again, and felt pleased. "Let's go and take Timothy for a walk," she said.
"He'll be wondering what's happened to us today."They all went off together, and Timothy greeted them at the top of his voice. They told him all abouttheir plans for the next day, and he wagged his tail and looked up at them out of his soft brown eyesas if he understood every single word they said!
"He must feel pleased to think he's going to be with us for two or three days," said Anne.
It was very exciting the next morning, setting off in the boat with all their things packed neatly at oneend. Julian checked them all by reading out aloud from his list. It didn't seem as if they had forgottenanything.
"Got the map?" said Dick, suddenly.
Julian nodded.
"I put on clean jeans this morning," he said, "but you may be sure I remembered to pop the map intomy pocket. Here it is!
He took it out and the wind at once blew it right out of his hands! It fell into the sea and bobbedthere in the wind. All four children gave a cry of utter dismay. Their precious map!
"Quick! Row after it!" cried George, and swung the boat round. But someone was quicker than shewas! Tim had seen the paper fly from Julian's hand, and had heard and understood the cries ofdismay. With an enormous splash he leapt into the water and swam valiantly after the map.
He could swim well for a dog, for he was strong and powerful. He soon had the map in his mouth andwas swimming back to the boat. The children thought he was simply marvellous!
George hauled him into the boat and took the map from his mouth. There was hardly the mark of histeeth on it! He had carried it so carefully. It was wet, and the children looked anxiously at it 56to see if the tracing had been spoilt. But Julian had traced it very strongly, and it was quite all right.
He placed it on a seat to dry, and told Dick to hold it there in the sun.
"That was a narrow squeak!" he said, and the others agreed.
George took the oars again, and they set off once more to the island, getting a perfect shower-bathfrom Timothy when he stood up and shook his wet coat. He was given a big biscuit as a reward, andcrunched it up with great enjoyment.
George made her way through the reefs of rocks with a sure hand. It was marvellous to the othershow she could slide the boat in between the dangerous rocks and never get a scratch. They thoughtshe was really wonderful. She brought them safely to the little inlet, and they jumped out on to thesand. They pulled the boat high up, in case the tide came far up the tiny cove, and then began tounload their goods.
"We'll carry all the things to that little stone room," said Julian. "They will be safe there and won't getwet if it rains. I hope nobody comes to the island while we are here, George.""I shouldn't think they would," said George. "Father said it would be about a week before the deedswere signed, making over the island to that man. It won't be his till then. We've got a week, anyhow.""Well, we don't need to keep a watch in case anyone else arrives then," said Julian, who had halfthought that it would be a good idea to make someone stay on guard at the inlet, to give a warning tothe others in case anyone else arrived. "Come on! You take the spades, Dick. I'll take the food anddrink with George. And Anne can take the little things."The food and drink were in a big box, for the children did not mean to starve while they were on theisland! They had brought loaves of bread, butter, biscuits, jam, tins of fruit, ripe plums, bottles ofginger-beer, a kettle to make tea, and anything else they could think of! George and Julian staggeredup the cliff with the heavy box. They had to put it down once or twice to give themselves a rest!
They put everything into the little room. Then they went back to get the collection of blankets andrugs from the boat. They arranged them in the corners of the little room, and thought that it would bemost exciting to spend the night there.
"The two girls can sleep together on this pile of rugs," said Julian. "And we two boys will have thispile."
57
George looked as if she didn't want to be put with Anne, and classed as a girl. But Anne didn't wishto sleep alone in her corner, and she looked so beseechingly at George that the bigger girl smiled ather and made no objection. Anne thought that George was getting nicer and nicer!
"Well, now we'll get down to business," said Julian, and he pulled out his map. "We must study thisreally carefully, and find out exactly under what spot the entrances to the dungeons are.
Now come around and let's do our best to find out! It's up to us to use our brains and beat thatman who's bought the island!"
They all bent over the traced map. It was quite dry now, and the children looked at it earnestly. It wasplain that in the old days the castle had been a very fine place.
"Now look," said Julian, putting his finger on the plan of the dungeons. "These seem to run all alongunder the castle and here and here are the marks that seem to be meant to represent steps orstairs."
"Yes," said George. "I should think they are. Well, if so, there appear to be two ways of getting downinto the dungeons. One lot of steps seems to begin somewhere near this little room and the otherseems to start under the tower there. And what do you suppose this thing is here, Julian?"She put her finger on a round hole that was shown not only in the plan of the dungeons, but also inthe plan of the ground floor of the castle.
"I can't imagine what that is," said Julian, puzzled. "Oh yes, I know what it might be! You said therewas an old well somewhere, do you remember? Well, that may be it, I should think. It would have tobe very deep to get fresh water right under the sea so it probably goes down through the dungeonstoo. Isn't this thrilling?"
Everyone thought it was. They felt happy and excited. There was something to discoversomething they could and must discover within the next day or two.
They looked at one another. "Well," said Dick, "what are we going to start on? Shall we try to findthe entrance to the dungeons the one that seems to start round about this little room? For all weknow there may be a big stone we can lift that opens above the dungeon steps!"This was a thrilling thought, and the children jumped up at once. Julian folded up the precious mapand put it into his pocket. He looked round. The stone floor of the little room was overgrown withcreeping weeds. They must be cleared away before it was possible to see if there were any stones thatlooked as if they might be moved.
58
"We'd better set to work," said Julian, and he picked up a spade. "Let's clear away these weeds withour spades scrape them off, look, like this and then examine every single stone!"They all picked up spades and soon the little stone room was full of a scraping sound as the four ofthem chiselled away at the close-growing weeds with their spades. It wasn't very difficult to get thestones clear of them, and the children worked with a will.
Tim got most excited about everything. He hadn't any idea at all what they were doing, but he joinedin valiantly. He scraped away at the floor with his four paws, sending earth and plants flying high intothe air!
"Hi, Tim!" said Julian, shaking a clod of earth out of his hair. "You're being a bit too vigorous.
My word, you'll send the stones flying into the air too, in a minute. George, isn't Tim marvellous theway he joins in everything?"
How they all worked! How they all longed to find the entrance to the underground dungeons!
What a thrill that would be.
11.






























































Chapter Twelve EXCITING DISCOVERIES
Chapter Twelve EXCITING DISCOVERIES
SOON the stones of the little room were clear of earth, sand and weeds. The children saw that theywere all the same size big and square, fitted well together. They went over them carefully withtheir torches, trying to find one that might move or lift.
"We should probably find one with an iron ring handle sunk into it," said Julian. But they didn't.
All the stones looked exactly the same. It was most disappointing.
Julian tried inserting his spade into the cracks between the various stones, to see if by any chance hecould move one. But they couldn't be moved. It seemed as if they were all set in the solid ground.
After about three hours hard work the children sat down to eat a meal.
They were very hungry indeed, and felt glad to think there were so many things to eat. As they atethey discussed the problem they were trying to solve.
"It looks as if the entrance to the dungeons was not under this little room after all," said Julian.
"It's disappointing but somehow I don't think now that the steps down to the dungeon started fromhere. Let's measure the map and see if we can make out exactly where the steps do start. It 59may be, of course, that the measurements aren't correct and won't be any help to us at all. But we cantry."
So they measured as best they could, to try and find out in exactly what place the dungeon stepsseemed to begin. It was impossible to tell, for the plans of the three floors seemed to be done todifferent scales. Julian stared at the map, puzzled. It seemed rather hopeless. Surely they wouldn'thave to hunt all over the ground floor of the castle! It would take ages.
"Look," said George, suddenly, putting her finger on the hole that they all thought must be meant torepresent the well. "The entrance to the dungeons seems to be not very far off the well. If only wecould find the well, we could hunt around a bit for the beginning of the dungeon steps. The well isshown in both maps. It seems to be somewhere about the middle of the castle.""That's a good idea of yours," said Julian, pleased. "Let's go out into the middle of the castlewe can more or less guess where the old well ought to be, because it definitely seems to be about themiddle of the old yard out there."
Out they all went into the sunshine. They felt very important and serious. It was marvellous to belooking for lost ingots of gold. They all felt perfectly certain that they really were somewhere beneaththeir feet. It didn't occur to any of the children that the treasure might not be there.
They stood in the ruined courtyard that had once been the centre of the castle. They paced out themiddle of the yard and then stood there, looking around in vain for anything that might perhaps havebeen the opening of an old well. It was all so overgrown. Sand had blown in from the shore, andweeds and bushes of all kinds grew there. The stones that had once formed the floor of the bigcourtyard were now cracked and were no longer lying flat. Most of them were covered with sand orweeds.
"Look! There's a rabbit!" cried Dick, as a big sandy rabbit lollopped slowly across the yard. Itdisappeared into a hole on the other side. Then another rabbit appeared, sat up and looked at thechildren, and then vanished too. The children were thrilled. They had never seen such tame rabbitsbefore.
A third rabbit appeared. It was a small one with absurdly big ears, and the tiniest white bob of a tail.
It didn't even look at the children. It bounded about in a playful way, and then, to the children'senormous delight, it sat up on its hind legs, and began to wash its big ears, pulling down first one andthen another.
60
But this was too much for Timothy. He had watched the other two bound across the yard and thendisappear without so much as barking at them. But to see this youngster actually sitting there washingits ears under his very nose was really too much for any dog. He gave an excited yelp and rushed full-tilt at the surprised rabbit.
For a moment the little thing didn't move. It had never been frightened or chased before, and it staredwith big eyes at the rushing dog. Then it turned itself about and tore off at top speed, its white bobtailgoing up and down as it bounded away. It disappeared under a gorse bush near the children. Timothywent after it, vanishing under the big bush too.
Then a shower of sand and earth was thrown up as Tim tried to go down the hole after the rabbit andscraped and scrabbled with his strong front paws as fast as he could. He yelped and whined inexcitement, not seeming to hear George's voice calling to him. He meant to get that rabbit! He wentalmost mad as he scraped at the hole, making it bigger and bigger.
"Tim! Do you hear me! Come out of there!" shouted George. "You're not to chase the rabbits here.
You know you mustn't. You're very naughty. Come out!"But Tim didn't come out. He just went on and on scraping away madly. George went to fetch him.
Just as she got up to the gorse bush the scraping suddenly stopped. There came a scared yelp andno more noise was heard. George peered under the prickly bush in astonishment.
Tim had disappeared! He just simply wasn't there any more. There was the big rabbit-hole, madeenormous by Tim but there was no Tim.
"I say, Julian Tim's gone," said George in a scared voice. "He surely can't have gone down thatrabbit's hole can he? I mean he's such a big dog!"The children crowded round the big gorse bush. There came the sound of a muffled whine fromsomewhere below it. Julian looked astonished.
"He is down the hole!" he said. "How queer! I never heard of a dog really going down a rabbit-holebefore. However are we going to get him out?""We'll have to dig up the gorse bush, to begin with," said George, in a determined voice. She wouldhave dug up the whole of Kirrin Castle to get Tim back, that was certain! "I can't have poor old Timwhining for help down there and not do what we can to help him."The bush was far too big and prickly to creep underneath. Julian was glad they had brought tools ofall kinds. He went to fetch an axe. They had brought a small one with them and it would do to 61chop away the prickly branches and trunk of the gorse bush. The children slashed at it and soon thepoor bush began to look a sorry sight.
It took a long time to destroy it, for it was prickly, sturdy and stout. Every child's hands werescratched by the time the bush had been reduced to a mere stump. Then they could see the hole quitewell. Julian shone his torch down it.
He gave a shout of surprise. "I know what's happened! The old well is here! The rabbits had a hole atthe side of it and Tim scraped away to make it bigger and uncovered a bit of the well-hole andhe's fallen down the well!"
"Oh no, oh no," cried George, in panic. "Oh Tim, Tim, are you all right?"A distant whine came to their ears. Evidently Tim was there somewhere. The children looked at oneanother.
"Well, there's only one thing to do," said Julian, "We must get our spades now and dig out the hole ofthe well. Then maybe we can let a rope down or something and get Tim."They set to work with their spades. It was not really difficult to uncover the hole, which had beenblocked only by the spreading roots of the big gorse bush, some fallen masonry, earth, sand and smallstones. Apparently a big slab had fallen from part of the tower across the well-hole, and partly closedit. The weather and the growing gorse bush had done the rest.
It took all the children together to move the slab. Underneath was a very rotten wooden cover, whichhad plainly been used in the old days to protect the well. It had rotted so much that when Tim'sweight had been pressed on it, it had given just there and made a hole for Tim to fall through.
Julian removed the old wooden cover and then the children could see down the well-hole. It was verydeep and very dark. They could not possibly see the bottom. Julian took a stone and dropped it down.
They all listened for the splash. But there was no splash. Either there was no longer any water there,or the well was too deep even to hear the splash!
"I think it's too deep for us to hear anything," said Julian. "Now where's Tim?"He shone his torch down and there was Tim! Many years before a big slab had fallen down thewell itself and had stuck a little way down, across the well-hole and on this old cracked slab satTim, his big eyes staring up in fright. He simply could not imagine what had happened to him.
62
There was an old iron ladder fastened to the side of the well. George was on it before anyone elsecould get there! Down she went, not caring if the ladder held or not, and reached Tim. Somehow shegot him on to her shoulder and, holding him there with one hand, she climbed slowly up again. Theother three hauled her out and Tim jumped round her, barking and licking for all he was worth!
"Well, Tim!" said Dick, "you shouldn't chase rabbitsbut you've certainly done us a good turn,because you've found the well for us! Now we've only got to look around a little to find the dungeonentrance!"
They set to work again to hunt for the dungeon entrance. They dug about with their spades under allthe bushes. They pulled up crooked stones and dug their spades into the earth below, hoping that theymight suddenly find them going through into space! It was really very thrilling.
And then Anne found the entrance! It was quite by accident. She was tired and sat down to rest.
She lay on her front and scrabbled about in the sand. Suddenly her fingers touched something hardand cold in the sand. She uncovered it and lo and behold, it was an iron ring! She gave a shout andthe others looked up.
"There's a stone with an iron ring in it here!" yelled Anne, excitedly. They all rushed over to her.
Julian dug about with his spade and uncovered the whole stone. Sure enough, it did have a ring in it and rings are only let into stones that need to be moved! Surely this stone must be the one thatcovered the dungeon entrance!
All the children took turns at pulling on the iron ring, but the stone did not move. Then Julian tiedtwo or three turns of rope through it and the four children put out their full strength and pulled for allthey were worth.
The stone moved. The children distinctly felt it stir. "All together again!" cried Julian. And alltogether they pulled. The stone stirred again and then suddenly gave way. It moved upwardsand the children fell over on top of one another like a row of dominoes suddenly pushed down!
Tim darted to the hole and barked madly down it as if all the rabbits of the world lived there!
Julian and George shot to their feet and rushed to the opening that the moved stone had disclosed.
They stood there, looking downwards, their faces shining with delight.
They had found the entrance to the dungeons! A steep flight of steps, cut out of the rock itself, leddownwards into deep darkness.
63
"Come on!" cried Julian, snapping on his torch. "We've found what we wanted! Now for thedungeons!"
The steps down were slippery. Tim darted down first, lost his foot-hold and rolled down five or sixsteps, yelping with fright. Julian went after him, then George, then Dick and then Anne. They wereall tremendously thrilled. Indeed, they quite expected to see piles of gold and all kinds of treasureeverywhere around them!
It was dark down the steep flight of steps, and smelt very musty. Anne choked a little.
"I hope the air down here is all right," said Julian. "Sometimes it isn't good in these undergroundplaces. If anyone feels a bit funny they'd better say so and we'll go up into the open air again."But however funny they might feel nobody would have said so. It was all far too exciting to worryabout feeling queer.
The steps went down a long way. Then they came to an end. Julian stepped down from the last rock-stair and flashed his torch around. It was a weird sight that met his eyes.
The dungeons of Kirrin Castle were made out of the rock itself. Whether there were natural cavesthere, or whether they had been hollowed out by man the children could not tell. But certainly theywere very mysterious, dark and full of echoing sounds. When Julian gave a sigh of excitement it fledinto the rocky hollows and swelled out and echoed around as if it were a live thing. It gave all thechildren a very queer feeling.
"Isn't it strange?" said George, in a low voice. At once the echoes took up her words, and multipliedthem and made them louder and all the dungeon caves gave back the girl's words over and overagain. "Isn't it strange, ISN'T IT STRANGE, ISN'T IT STRANGE."Anne slipped her hand into Dick's. She felt scared. She didn't like the echoes at all. She knew theywere only echoes but they did sound exactly like the voices of scores of people hidden in thecaves!
"Where do you suppose the ingots are?" said Dick. And at once the caves threw him back his words.
"INGOTS! Ingots are! INGOTS ARE! ARE! ARE!"Julian laughed and his laugh was split up into dozens of different laughs that came out of thedungeons and spun round the listening children. It really was the queerest thing.
"Come on," said Julian. "Maybe the echoes won't be so bad a little farther in.""FARTHER IN," said the echoes at once. "FARTHER IN!"64
They moved away from the end of the rocky steps and explored the nearby dungeons. They werereally only rocky cellars stretching under the castle. Maybe wretched prisoners had been kept theremany, many years before, but mostly they had been used for storing things.
"I wonder which dungeon was used for storing the ingots," said Julian. He stopped and took the mapout of his pocket. He flashed his torch on to it. But although it showed him quite plainly the dungeonwhere INGOTS were marked, he had no idea at all of the right direction.
"I say look there's a door here, shutting off the next dungeon!" suddenly cried Dick. "I bet this isthe dungeon we're looking for! I bet there are ingots in here!"
12.

































































Chapter Thirteen DOWN IN THE DUNGEONS
Chapter Thirteen DOWN IN THE DUNGEONS
FOUR torches were flashed on to the wooden door. It was big and stout, studded with great ironnails. Julian gave a whoop of delight and rushed to it. He felt certain that behind it was the dungeonused for storing things.
But the door was fast shut. No amount of pushing or pulling would open it. It had a great keyholebut no key there! The four children stared in exasperation at the door. Bother it! Just as they reallythought they were near the ingots, this door wouldn't open!
"We'll fetch the axe," said Julian, suddenly. "We may be able to chop round the keyhole and smashthe lock."
"That's a good idea!" said George, delighted. "Come on back!"They left the big door, and tried to get back the way they had come. But the dungeons were so bigand so rambling that they lost their way. They stumbled over old broken barrels, rotting wood, emptybottles and many other things as they tried to find their way back to the big flight of rock-steps.
"This is sickening!" said Julian, at last. "I simply haven't any idea at all where the entrance is.
We keep on going into one dungeon after another, and one passage after another, and they all seem tobe exactly the samedark and smelly and mysterious.""Suppose we have to stay here all the rest of our lives!" said Anne, gloomily.
"Idiot!" said Dick, taking her hand. "We shall soon find the way out. Hallo! what's this"65
They all stopped. They had come to what looked like a chimney shaft of brick, stretching down fromthe roof of the dungeon to the floor. Julian flashed his torch on to it. He was puzzled.
"I know what it is!" said George, suddenly. "It's the well, of course! You remember it was shown inthe plan of the dungeons, as well as in the plan of the ground floor. Well, that's the shaft of the wellgoing down and down. I wonder if there's any opening in it just hereso that water could be takeninto the dungeons as well as up to the ground floor."They went to see. On the other side of the well-shaft was a small opening big enough for one child ata time to put his head and shoulders through and look down. They shone their torches down and up.
The well was so deep that it was still impossible to see the bottom of it. Julian dropped a stone downagain, but there was no sound of either a thud or a splash. He looked upwards, and could see the faintgleam of daylight that slid round the broken slab of stone lying a little way down the shaft the slabon which Tim had sat, waiting to be rescued.
"Yes," he said, "this is the well all right. Isn't it queer? Well now we've found the well we knowthat the entrance to the dungeons isn't very far off!"That cheered them all up tremendously. They took hands and hunted around in the dark, their torchesmaking bright beams of light here and there.
Anne gave a screech of excitement. "Here's the entrance! It must be, because I can see faint daylightcoming down!"
The children rounded a corner and sure enough, there was the steep, rocky flight of steps leadingupwards. Julian took a quick look round so that he might know the way to go when they came downagain. He didn't feel at all certain that he would find the wooden door!
They all went up into the sunshine. It was delicious to feel the warmth on their heads and shouldersafter the cold air down in the dungeons. Julian looked at his watch and gave a loud exclamation.
"It's half-past six! Half-past six! No wonder I feel hungry. We haven't had any tea. We've beenworking, and wandering about those dungeons for hours.""Well, let's have a kind of tea-supper before we do anything else," said Dick. I don't feel as if I've hadanything to eat for about twelve months.""Well, considering you ate about twice as much as anyone else at dinner- time," began Julian,indignantly. Then he grinned. "I feel the same as you," he said. "Come on!let's get a really 66good meal. George, what about boiling a kettle and making some cocoa, or something? I feel coldafter all that time underground."
It was fun boiling the kettle on a fire of dry sticks. It was lovely to lie about in the warmth of theevening sun and munch bread and cheese and enjoy cake and biscuits. They all enjoyed themselvesthoroughly. Tim had a good meal too. He hadn't very much liked being underground, and hadfollowed the others very closely indeed, his tail well down. He had been very frightened, too, of thecurious echoes here and there.
Once he had barked, and it had seemed to Tim as if the whole of the dungeons were full of otherdogs, all barking far more loudly than he could. He hadn't even dared to whine after that! But now hewas happy again, eating the tit-bits that the children gave him, and licking George whenever he wasnear her.
It was past eight o'clock by the time that the children had finished their meal and tidied up. Julianlooked at the others. The sun was sinking, and the day was no longer so warm.
"Well," he said, "I don't know what you feel. But I don't somehow want to go down into thosedungeons again today, not even for the sake of smashing in that door with the axe and opening it!
I'm tired, and I don't like the thought of losing my way in those dungeons at night."The others heartily agreed with him, especially Anne, who had secretly been dreading going downagain with the night coming on. The little girl was almost asleep; she was so tired out with hard workand excitement.
"Come on, Anne!" said George, pulling her to her feet. "Bed for you. We'll cuddle up together in therugs on the floor of that little room and in the morning when we wake we'll be simply thrilled tothink of opening that big wooden door."
All four children, with Tim close behind, went off to the little stone room. They curled up on theirpiles of rugs, and Tim crept in with George and Anne. He lay down on them, and felt so heavy thatAnne had to push him off her legs.
He sat himself down on her again, and she groaned, half-asleep. Tim wagged his tail and thumped ithard against her ankles. Then George pulled him on to her own legs and lay there, feeling himbreathe. She was very happy. She was spending the night on her island. They had almost found theingots, she was sure. She had Tim with her, actually sleeping on her rugs.
Perhaps everything would come right after all somehow.
67
She fell asleep. The children felt perfectly safe with Tim on guard. They slept peacefully until themorning, when Tim saw a rabbit through the broken archway leading to the little room, and spedaway to chase it. He awoke George as he got up from the rugs, and she sat up and rubbed her eyes.
"Wake up!" she cried to the others. "Wake up, all of you! It's morning! And we're on the island!"They all awoke. It was really thrilling to sit up and remember everything. Julian thought of the bigwooden door at once. He would soon smash it in with his axe, he felt sure. And then what would theyfind?
They had breakfast, and ate just as much as ever. Then Julian picked up the axe they had brought andtook everyone to the flight of steps. Tim went too, wagging his tail, but not really feeling verypleased at the thought of going down into the queer places where other dogs seemed to bark, and yetwere not to be found. Poor Tim would never understand echoes!
They all went down underground again. And then, of course, they couldn't find the way to thewooden door! It was most tiresome.
"We shall lose our way all over again," said George, desperately. "These dungeons are about the mostrambling spread-out maze of underground caves I've ever known! We shall lose the entrance againtoo!"
Julian had a bright idea. He had a piece of white chalk in his pocket, and he took it out. He went backto the steps, and marked the wall there. Then he began to put chalk-marks along the passages as theywalked in the musty darkness. They came to the well, and Julian was pleased.
"Now," he said, "whenever we come to the well we shall at least be able to find the way back to thesteps, because we can follow my chalk-marks. Now the thing is which is the way next?
We'll try and find it and I'll put chalk-marks along the walls here and there but if we go the wrongway and have to come back, we'll rub out the marks, and start again from the well another way."This was really a very good idea. They did go the wrong way, and had to come back, rubbing outJulian's marks. They reached the well, and set off in the opposite direction. And this time they didfind the wooden door!
There it was, stout and sturdy, its old iron nails rusty and red. The children stared at it in delight.
Julian lifted his axe.
68
Crash! He drove it into the wood and round about the keyhole. But the wood was still strong, and theaxe only went in an inch or two. Julian drove it in once more. The axe hit one of the big nails andslipped a little to one side. A big splinter of wood flew out and struck poor Dick on the cheek!
He gave a yell of pain. Julian jumped in alarm, and turned to look at him. Dick's cheek was pouringwith blood!
"Something flew out of the door and hit me," said poor Dick. "It's a splinter, or something.""Golly!" said Julian, and he shone his torch on to Dick. "Can you bear it a moment if I pull thesplinter out? It's a big one, and it's still sticking into your poor cheek."But Dick pulled it out himself. He made a face with the pain, and then turned very white.
"You'd better get up into the open air for a bit," said Julian. "And we'll have to bathe your cheek andstop it bleeding somehow. Anne's got a clean hanky. We'll bathe it and dab it with that. We broughtsome water with us, luckily."
"I'll go with Dick," said Anne. "You stay here with George. There's no need for us all to go."But Julian thought he would like to see Dick safely up into the open air first, and then he could leavehim with Anne while he went back to George and went on with the smashing down of the door. Hehanded the axe to George.
"You can do a bit of chopping while I'm gone," he said. "It will take some time to smash that big doorin. You get on with it and I'll be down in a few minutes again. We can easily find the way to theentrance because we've only got to follow my chalk-marks.""Right!" said George, and she took the axe. "Poor old Dick you do look a sight."Leaving George behind with Tim, valiantly attacking the big door, Julian took Dick and Anne up tothe open air. Anne dipped her hanky into the kettle of water and dabbed Dick's cheek gently. It wasbleeding very much, as cheeks do, but the wound was not really very bad. Dick's colour soon cameback, and he wanted to go down into the dungeons again.
"No, you'd better lie down on your back for a little," said Julian. "I know that's good for nose-bleeding and maybe it's good for cheek-bleeding too. What about Anne and you going out on therocks over there, where you can see the wreck, and staying there for half an hour or so?
Come on I'll take you both there, and leave you for a bit. You'd better not get up till your cheek'sstopped bleeding, old boy."
69
Julian took the two out of the castle yard and out on to the rocks on the side of the island that facedthe open sea. The dark hulk of the old wreck was still there on the rocks. Dick lay down on his backand stared up into the sky, hoping that his cheek would soon stop bleeding. He didn't want to missany of the fun!
Anne took his hand. She was very upset at the little accident, and although she didn't want to miss thefun either, she meant to stay with Dick till he felt better. Julian sat down beside them for a minute ortwo. Then he went back to the rocky steps and disappeared down them. He followed his chalk-marks,and soon came to where George was attacking the door.
She had smashed it well round the lock but it simply would not give way. Julian took the axe fromher and drove it hard into the wood.
After a blow or two something seemed to happen to the lock. It became loose, and hung a littlesideways. Julian put down his axe.
"I think somehow that we can open the door now," he said, in an exited voice. "Get out of the way,Tim, old fellow. Now then, push, George!"They both pushed and the lock gave way with a grating noise. The big door opened creakingly, andthe two children went inside, flashing their torches in excitement.
The room was not much more than a cave, hollowed out of the rock but in it was something quitedifferent from the old barrels and boxes the children had found before. At the back, in untidy piles,were curious, brick-shaped things of dull yellow-brown metal. Julian picked one up.
"George!" he cried. "The ingots! These are real gold! Oh, I know they don't look like it but theyare, all the same. George, oh George, there's a small fortune here in this cellar and it's yours! We'vefound it at last!"
13.


































































Chapter Fourteen PRISONERS!
Chapter Fourteen PRISONERS!
GEORGE couldn't say a word. She just stood there, staring at the pile of ingots, holding one in herhand. She could hardly believe that these strange brick-shaped things were really gold. Her heartthumped fast. What a wonderful, marvellous find!
70
Suddenly Tim began to bark loudly. He stood with his back to the children, his nose towards the door and how he barked!
"Shut up, Tim!" said Julian. "What can you hear? Is it the others coming back?"He went to the door and yelled down the passage outside. "Dick! Anne! Is it you? Come quickly,because we've found the ingots! WE'VE FOUND THEM! HURRY! HURRY!"Tim stopped barking and began to growl. George looked puzzled. "Whatever can be the matter withTim?" she said. "He surely can't be growling at Dick and Anne."Then both children got a most tremendous shock for a man's voice came booming down the darkpassage, making queer echoes all around.
"Who is here? Who is down here?"
George clutched Julian in fright. Tim went on growling, all the hairs on his neck standing up straight.
"Do be quiet, Tim!" whispered George, snapping off her torch.
But Tim simply would not be quiet. He went on growling as if he were a small thunderstorm.
The children saw the beam of a powerful torchlight coming round the corner of the dungeon passage.
Then the light picked them out, and the holder of the torch came to a surprised stop.
"Well, well, well!" said a voice. "Look who's here! Two children in the dungeons of my castle.""What do you mean, your castle!" cried George.
"Well, my dear little girl, it is my castle, because I'm in the process of buying it," said the voice.
Then another voice spoke, more gruffly.
"What are you doing down here? What did you mean when you shouted out Dick and Anne,
and said you had found the ingots? What ingots?""Don't answer," whispered Julian to George. But the echoes took his words and made them very loudin the passage."DON'T ANSWER! DON'T ANSWER!""Oh, so you won't answer," said the second man, and he stepped towards the children. Tim bared histeeth, but the man didn't seem at all frightened of him. The man went to the door and flashed his torchinside the dungeon. He gave a long whistle of surprise.
"Jake! Look here!" he said. "You were right. The gold's here all right. And how easy to take away!
All in ingots my word, this is the most amazing thing we've ever struck.""This gold is mine," said George, in a fury. "The island and the castle belong to my motherand so does anything found here. This gold was brought here and stored by my great-great-great-grandfather before his ship got wrecked. It's not yours, and never will be. As soon as I get back 71home I shall tell my father and mother what we've found and then you may be sure you won't beable to buy the castle or the island! You were very clever, finding out from the map in the old boxabout the gold -but just not clever enough for us. We found it first!"The men listened in silence to George's clear and angry voice. One of them laughed. "You're only achild," he said. "You surely don't think you can keep us from getting our way? We're going to buythis island and everything in it and we shall take the gold when the deeds are signed. And if byany chance we couldn't buy the island, we'd take the gold just the same. It would be easy enough tobring a ship here and transfer the ingots from here by boat to the ship.
Don't worry we shall get what we want all right.""You will not!" said George, and she stepped out of the door. "I'm going straight home nowand I'll tell my father all you've said.""My dear little girl, you are not going home," said the first man, putting his hands on George andforcing her back into the dungeon. "And, by the way, unless you want me to shoot this unpleasantdog of yours, call him off, will you?"
George saw, to her dismay, that the man had a shining revolver in his hand. In fright she caught holdof Tim's collar and pulled him to her. "Be quiet, Tim," she said. "It's all right."But Tim knew quite well that it wasn't all right. Something was very wrong. He went on growlingfiercely.
"Now listen to me," said the man, after he had had a hurried talk with his companion. "If you aregoing to be sensible, nothing unpleasant will happen to you. But if you want to be obstinate, you'll bevery sorry. What we are going to do is this we're going off in our motor-boat, leaving you nicelylocked up here and we're going to get a ship and come back for the gold. We don't think it's worthwhile buying the island now we know where the ingots are.""And you are going to write a note to your companions above, telling them you've found the gold andthey are to come down and look for it," said the other man. "Then we shall lock up all of you in thisdungeon, with the ingots to play with, leaving you food and drink till we come back. Now thenhere is a pencil. Write a note to Dick and Anne, whoever they are, and send your dog up with it.
Come on."
"I won't," said George, her face furious. "I won't. You can't make me do a thing like that. I won't getpoor Dick and Anne down here to be made prisoners. And I won't let you have my gold, just whenI've discovered it."
72
"We shall shoot your dog if you don't do as you're told," said the first man, suddenly. George's heartsank down and she felt cold and terrified.
"No, no," she said, in a low, desperate voice.
"Well, write the note then," said the man, offering her a pencil and paper. "Go on. I'll tell you what tosay."
"I can't!" sobbed George. "I don't want to get Dick and Anne down here to be made prisoners.""All right I'll shoot the dog then," said the man, in a cold voice and he levelled his revolver at poorTim. George threw her arms round her dog and gave a scream.
"No, no! I'll write the note. Don't shoot Tim, don't shoot him!"The girl took the paper and pencil in a shaking hand and looked at the man. "Write this," he ordered.
"Dear Dick and Anne. We've found the gold. Come on down at once and see it." Then sign yourname, whatever it is."
George wrote what the man had said. Then she signed her name. But instead of writing George
she put Georgina. She knew that the others would feel certain she would never sign herself thatand she hoped it would warn them that something queer was up. The man took the note and fastenedit to Tim's collar. The dog growled all the time, but George kept telling him not to bite.
"Now tell him to go and find your friends," said the man.
"Find Dick and Anne," commanded George. "Go on, Tim. Find Dick and Anne. Give them the note."Tim did not want to leave George, but there was something very urgent in her voice. He took one lastlook at his mistress, gave her hand a lick and sped off down the passage. He knew the way now. Upthe rocky steps he bounded and into the open air. He stopped in the old yard, sniffing.
Where were Dick and Anne?
He smelt their footsteps and ran off, his nose to the ground. He soon found the two children out onthe rocks. Dick was feeling better now and was sitting up. His cheek had almost stopped bleeding.
"Hallo," he said in surprise, when he saw Tim. "Here's Timothy! Why, Tim, old chap, why have youcome to see us? Did you get tired of being underground in the dark?"73
"Look, Dick he's got something twisted into his collar," said Anne, her sharp eyes seeing the paperthere. "It's a note. I expect it's from the others, telling us to go down. Isn't Tim clever to bring it?"Dick took the paper from Tim's collar. He undid it and read it.
"Dear Dick and Anne," he read out aloud, "We've found the gold. Come on down at once and see it.
Georgina."
"Oooh!" said Anne, her eyes shining. "They've found it. Oh Dick are you well enough to comenow? Let's hurry."
But Dick did not get up from the rocks. He sat and stared at the note, puzzled.
"What's the matter?" said Anne, impatiently.
"Well, don't you think it's funny that George should suddenly sign herself Georgina?" said Dick,slowly. "You know how she hates being a girl, and having a girl's name. You know how she willnever answer if anyone calls her Georgina. And yet in this note she signs herself by the name shehates. It does seem a bit funny to me. Almost as if it's a kind of warning that there's somethingwrong."
"Oh, don't be so silly, Dick," said Anne. "What could be wrong? Do come on.""Anne, I'd like to pop over to that inlet of ours to make sure there's no one else come to the island,"said Dick. "You stay here."
But Anne didn't want to stay there alone. She ran round the coast with Dick, telling him all the timethat she thought he was very silly.
But when they came to the little harbour, they saw that there was another boat there, as well as theirown. It was a motor-boat! Someone else was on the island!
"Look," said Dick, in a whisper. "There is someone else here. And I bet it's the men who want to buythe island. I bet they've read that old map and know there's gold here. And they've found George andJulian and want to get us all together down in the dungeons so that they can keep us safe till they'vestolen the gold. That's why they made George send us that note but she signed it with a name shenever uses to warn us! Now we must think hard. What are we going to do?"
14.
























































Chapter Fifteen DICK TO THE RESCUE!
Chapter Fifteen DICK TO THE RESCUE!
DICK caught hold of Anne's hand and pulled her quickly away from the cove. He was afraid thatwhoever had come to the island might be somewhere about and see them. The boy took Anne to thelittle stone room where their things were and they sat down in a corner.
"Whoever has come has discovered Julian and George smashing in that door, I should think,"said Dick, in a whisper. "I simply can't think what to do. We mustn't go down into the dungeons orwe'll most certainly be caught. Hallo where's Tim off to?"The dog had kept with them for a while but now he ran off to the entrance of the dungeons. Hedisappeared down the steps. He meant to get back to George, for he knew she was in danger.
Dick and Anne stared after him. They had felt comforted while he was there, and now they weresorry he had gone.
They really didn't know what to do. Then Anne had an idea. "I know!" she said, "we'll row back tothe land in our boat and get help."
"I'd thought of that," said Dick, gloomily. "But you know perfectly well we'd never know the way inand out of those awful rocks. We'd wreck the boat. I'm sure we're not strong enough either to row allthe way back. Oh, dear I do wish we could think what to do."They didn't need to puzzle their brains long. The men came up out of the dungeons and began to huntfor the two children! They had seen Tim when he came back and had found the note gone.
So they knew the two children had taken it and they couldn't imagine why they had not obeyedwhat George had said in the note, and come down to the dungeons!
Dick heard their voices. He clutched hold of Anne to make her keep quiet. He saw through thebroken archway that the men were going in the opposite direction.
"Anne! I know where we can hide!" said the boy, excitedly. "Down the old well! We can climb downthe ladder a little way and hide there. I'm sure no one would ever look there!"Anne didn't at all want to climb down the well even a little way. But Dick pulled her to her feet andhurried her off to the middle of the old courtyard. The men were hunting around the other side of thecastle. There was just time to climb in. Dick slipped aside the old wooden cover of the well andhelped Anne down the ladder. She was very scared. Then the boy climbed down himself and slippedthe wooden cover back again over his head, as best he could.
75
The old stone slab that Tim had sat on when he fell down the well was still there. Dick climbed downto it and tested it. It was immovable.
"It's safe for you to sit on, Anne, if you don't want to keep clinging to the ladder," he whispered.
So Anne sat shivering on the stone slab across the well-shaft, waiting to see if they were discoveredor not. They kept hearing the voices of the men, now near at hand and now far-off.
Then the men began to shout for them.
"Dick! Anne! The others want you! Where are you? We've exciting news for you.""Well, why don't they let Julian and George come up and tell us then?" whispered Dick. "There'ssomething wrong, I know there is. I do wish we could get to Julian and George and find out what hashappened."
The two men came into the courtyard. They were angry. "Where have those kids got to?" said Jake.
"Their boat is still in the cove, so they haven't got away. They must be hiding somewhere.
We can't wait all day for them."
"Well, let's take some food and drink down to the two we've locked up," said the other man.
"There's plenty in that little stone room. I suppose it's a store the children brought over. We'll leavehalf in the room so that the other two kids can have it. And we'll take their boat with us so that theycan't escape."
"Right," said Jake. "The thing to do is to get the gold away as quickly as possible, and make sure thechildren are prisoners here until we've made a safe getaway. We won't bother any more about tryingto buy the island. After all, it was only the idea of getting the ingots that put us up to the idea ofgetting Kirrin Castle and the island."
"Wellcome on," said his companion. "We will take the food down now, and not bother about theother kids. You stay here and see if you can spot them while I go down."Dick and Anne hardly dared to breathe when they heard all this. How they hoped that the menwouldn't think of looking down the well! They heard one man walk to the little stone room. It wasplain that he was getting food and drink to take down to the two prisoners in the dungeons below.
The other man stayed in the courtyard, whistling softly.
After what seemed a very long time to the hidden children, the first man came back. Then the twotalked together, and at last went off to the cove. Dick heard the motor-boat being started up.
"It's safe to get out now, Anne," he said. "Isn't it cold down here? I'll be glad to get out into thesunshine."
76
They climbed out and stood warming themselves in the hot summer sunshine. They could see themotor-boat streaking towards the mainland.
"Well, they're gone for the moment," said Dick. "And they've not taken our boat, as they said. If onlywe could rescue Julian and George, we could get help, because George could row us back.""Why can't we rescue them?" cried Anne, her eyes shining. "We can go down the steps and unboltthe door, can't we?"
"No we can't," said Dick. "Look!"
Anne looked to where he pointed. She saw that the two men had piled big, heavy slabs of brokenstone over the dungeon entrance. It had taken all their strength to put the big stones there.
Neither Dick nor Anne could hope to move them.
"It's quite impossible to get down the steps," said Dick. "They've made sure we shan't do that!
And you know we haven't any idea where the second entrance is. We only know it was somewherenear the tower."
"Let's see if we can find it," said Anne eagerly. They set off to the tower on the right of the castlebut it was quite clear that whatever entrance there might have been once, it was gone now! The castlehad fallen in very much just there, and there were piles of old broken stones everywhere, quiteimpossible to move. The children soon gave up the search.
"Blow!" said Dick. "How I do hate to think of poor old Julian and George prisoners down below, andwe can't even help them! Oh, Anne can't you think of something to do?"Anne sat down on a stone and thought hard. She was very worried. Then she brightened up a littleand turned to Dick.
"Dick! I suppose I suppose we couldn't possibly climb down the well, could we?" she asked.
"You know it goes past the dungeons and there's an opening on the dungeon floor from the well-shaft, because don't you remember we were able to put in our heads and shoulders and look right upthe well to the top? Could we get past that slab, do you think the one that I sat on just now, that hasfallen across the well?"
Dick thought it all over. He went to the well and peered down it. "You know, I believe you are right,Anne," he said at last. "We might be able to squeeze past that slab. There's just about room.
I don't know how far the iron ladder goes down though.""Oh, Dick do let's try," said Anne. "It's our only chance of rescuing the others!"77
"Well," said Dick, 'I'll try it but not you, Anne. I'm not going to have you falling down that well.
The ladder might be broken half-way down anything might happen. You must stay up here and I'llsee what I can do."
"You will be careful, won't you?" said Anne, anxiously. "Take a rope with you, Dick, so that if youneed one you won't have to climb all the way up again.""Good idea," said Dick. He went to the little stone room and got one of the ropes they had put there.
He wound it round and round his waist. Then he went back to Anne.
"Well, here goes!" he said, in a cheerful voice. "Don't worry about me. I'll be all right."Anne was rather white. She was terribly afraid that Dick might fall right down to the bottom of thewell. She watched him climb down the iron ladder to the slab of stone. He tried his best to squeeze byit, but it was very difficult. At last he managed it and after that Anne could see him no more. But shecould hear him, for he kept calling up to her.
"Ladder's still going strong, Anne! I'm all right. Can you hear me?""Yes," shouted Anne down the well, hearing her voice echo in a funny hollow manner. "Take care,Dick. I do hope the ladder goes all the way down.""I think it does!" yelled back Dick. Then he gave a loud exclamation. "Blow! It's broken just here.
Broken right off. Or else it ends. I'll have to use my rope."There was a silence as Dick unwound the rope from his waist. He tied it firmly to the last but onerung of the ladder, which seemed quite strong.
"I'm going down the rope now!" he shouted to Anne. "Don't worry. I'm all right. Here I go!"Anne couldn't hear what Dick said after that, for the well-shaft made his words go crooked and shecouldn't make out what they were. But she was glad to hear him shouting even though she didn'tknow what he said. She yelled down to him too, hoping he could hear her.
Dick slid down the rope, holding on to it with hands, knees and feet, glad that he was so good at gymat school. He wondered if he was anywhere near the dungeons. He seemed to have gone down a longway. He managed to get out his torch. He put it between his teeth after he had switched it on, so thathe might have both hands free for the rope. The light from the torch showed him the walls of the wellaround him. He couldn't make out if he was above or below the dungeons. He didn't want to go rightdown to the bottom of the well!
He decided that he must have just passed the opening into the dungeon-caves. He climbed back upthe rope a little way and to his delight saw that he was right. The opening on to the dungeons 78was just by his head. He climbed up till he was level with it and then swung himself to the side of thewell where the small opening was. He managed to get hold of the bricked edge, and then tried toscramble through the opening into the dungeon.
It was difficult, but luckily Dick was not very big. He managed it at last and stood up straight with asigh of relief. He was in the dungeons! He could now follow the chalk-marks to the room or cavewhere the ingots were and where he felt sure that George and Julian were imprisoned!
He shone his torch on the wall. Yes there were the chalk-marks. Good! He put his head into thewell-opening and yelled at the top of his voice.
"Anne! I'm in the dungeons! Watch out that the men don't come back!"Then he began to follow the white chalk-marks, his heart beating fast. After a while he came to thedoor of the store-room. As he had expected, it was fastened so that George and Julian couldn't getout. Big bolts had been driven home at the top and bottom, and the children inside could not possiblyget out. They had tried their hardest to batter down the door, but it was no good at all.
They were sitting inside the store-cave, feeling angry and exhausted. The man had brought them foodand drink, but they had not touched it. Tim was with them, lying down with his head on his paws,half-angry with George because she hadn't let him fly at the men as he had so badly wanted to. ButGeorge felt certain that Tim would be shot if he tried biting or snapping.
"Anyway, the other two had sense enough not to come down and be made prisoners too," saidGeorge. "They must have known there was something funny about that note when they saw I hadsigned myself Georgina instead of George. I wonder what they are doing. They must be hiding."Tim suddenly gave a growl. He leapt to his feet and went to the closed door, his head on one side. Hehad heard something, that was certain.
"I hope it's not those men back again already," said George. Then she looked at Tim in surprise,flashing her torch on to him. He was wagging his tail!
A great bang at the door made them all jump out of their skins! Then came Dick's cheerful voice.
"Hi, Julian! Hi, George! Are you here?"
"Wuffffff!" barked Tim, joyfully and scratched at the door.
"Dick! Open the door!" yelled Julian in delight. "Quick, open the door!"
15.


























































 


Chapter Sixteen A PLAN  AND A NARROW ESCAPE
Chapter Sixteen A PLAN  AND A NARROW ESCAPE
DICK unbolted the door at the top and bottom and flung it open. He rushed in and thumped Georgeand Julian happily on the back.
"Hallo!" he said. "How does it feel to be rescued?""Fine!" cried Julian, and Tim barked madly round them.
George grinned at Dick.
"Good work!" she said. "What happened?"
Dick told them in a few words all that had happened. When he related how he had climbed down theold well, George and Julian could hardly believe their ears. Julian slipped his arm through hisyounger brother's.
"You're a brick!" he said. "A real brick! Now quickwhat are we going to do?""Well, if they've left us our boat I'm going to take us all back to the mainland as quickly as possible,"said George. "I'm not playing about with men who brandish revolvers all the time.
Come on! Up the well we go and find the boat."They ran to the well-shaft and squeezed through the small opening one by one. Up the rope theywent, and soon found the iron ladder. Julian made them go up one by one in case the ladder wouldn'tbear the weight of all three at once.
It really wasn't very long before they were all up in the open air once more, giving Anne hugs, andhearing her exclaim gladly, with tears in her eyes, how pleased she was to see them all again.
"Now come on!" said George after a minute. "Off to the boat. Quick! Those men may be back at anytime."
They rushed to the cove. There was their boat, lying where they had pulled it, out of reach of thewaves. But what a shock for them!
"They've taken the oars!" said George, in dismay. "The beasts! They know we can't row the boataway without oars. They were afraid you and Anne might row off, Dick so instead of bothering totow the boat behind them, they just grabbed the oars. Now we're stuck. We can't possibly get away."80
It was a great disappointment. The children were almost ready to cry. After Dick's marvellous rescueof George and Julian, it had seemed as if everything was going right and now suddenly things weregoing wrong again.
"We must think this out," said Julian, sitting down where he could see at once if any boat came insight. "The men have gone off probably to get a ship from somewhere in which they can put theingots and sail away. They won't be back for some time, I should think, because you can't charter aship all in a hurry unless, of course, they've got one of their own.""And in the meantime we can't get off the island to get help, because they've got our oars," saidGeorge. "We can't even signal to any passing fishing-boat because they won't be out just now.
The tide's wrong. It seems as if all we've got to do is wait here patiently till the men come back andtake my gold! And we can't stop them."
"You know I've got a sort of plan coming into my head," said Julian, slowly. "Wait a bitdon't interrupt me. I'm thinking."
The others waited in silence while Julian sat and frowned, thinking of his plan. Then he looked at theothers with a smile.
"I believe it will work," he said. "Listen! We'll wait here in patience till the men come back.
What will they do? They'll drag away those stones at the top of the dungeon entrance, and go downthe steps. They'll go to the store-room, where they left us thinking we are still there, and they willgo into the room. Well, what about one of us being hidden down there ready to bolt them into theroom? Then we can either go off in their motor-boat or our own boat if they bring back our oarsand get help."
Anne thought it was a marvellous idea. But Dick and George did not look so certain. "We'd have togo down and bolt that door again to make it seem as if we are still prisoners there," said George.
"And suppose the one who hides down there doesn't manage to bolt the men in? It might be verydifficult to do that quickly enough. They will simply catch whoever we plan to leave down there, andcome up to look for the rest of us."
"That's true," said Julian, thoughtfully. "Well we'll suppose that Dick, or whoever goes down,doesn't manage to bolt them in and make them prisoners and the men come up here again. All right while they are down below we'll pile big stones over the entrance, just as they did. Then theywon't be able to get out."
"What about Dick down below?" said Anne, at once.
81
"I could climb up the well again!" said Dick, eagerly. "I'll be the one to go down and hide. I'll do mybest to bolt the men into the room. And if I have to escape I'll climb up the well-shaft again.
The men don't know about that. So even if they are not prisoners in the dungeon room, they'll beprisoners underground!"
The children talked over this plan, and decided that it was the best they could think of. Then Georgesaid she thought it would be a good thing to have a meal. They were all half-starved and, now that theworry and excitement of being rescued was over, they were feeling very hungry!
They fetched some food from the little room and ate it in the cove, keeping a sharp look-out for thereturn of the men. After about two hours they saw a big fishing-smack appear in the distance, andheard the chug-chug-chug of a motor-boat too.
"There they are!" said Julian, in excitement, and he jumped to his feet. "That's the ship they mean toload with the ingots, and sail away in safety and there's the motor-boat bringing the men back!
Quick, Dick, down the well you go, and hide until you hear them in the dungeons!"Dick shot off. Julian turned to the others. "We'll have to hide," he said. "Now that the tide is out we'llhide over yonder, behind those uncovered rocks. I don't somehow think the men will do any huntingfor Dick and Anne -but they might. Come on! Quick!"They all hid themselves behind the rocks, and heard the motor-boat come chugging into the tinyharbour. They could hear men calling to one another. There sounded to be more than two men thistime. Then the men left the inlet and went up the low cliff towards the ruined castle.
Julian crept behind the rocks and peeped to see what the men were doing. He felt certain they werepulling away the slabs of stone that had been piled on top of the entrance to prevent Dick and Annegoing down to rescue the others.
"George! Come on!" called Julian in a low tone. "I think the men have gone down the steps into thedungeons now. We must go and try to put those big stones back. Quick!"George, Julian and Anne ran softly and swiftly to the old courtyard of the castle. They saw that thestones had been pulled away from the entrance to the dungeons. The men had disappeared.
They had plainly gone down the steps.
The three children did their best to tug at the heavy stones to drag them back. But their strength wasnot the same as that of the men, and they could not manage to get any very big stones across.
They put three smaller ones, and Julian hoped the men would find them too difficult to move frombelow. "If only Dick has managed to bolt them into that room!" he said to the others.
82
"Gome on, back to the well now. Dick will have to come up there, because he won't be able to get outof the entrance."
They all went to the well. Dick had removed the old wooden cover, and it was lying on the ground.
The children leaned over the hole of the well and waited anxiously. What was Dick doing? Theycould hear nothing from the well and they longed to know what was happening.
There was plenty happening down below! The two men, and another, had gone down into thedungeons, expecting, of course, to find Julian, George and the dog still locked up in the storeroomwith the ingots. They passed the well-shaft not guessing that an excited small boy was hidden there,ready to slip out of the opening as soon as they had passed.
Dick heard them pass. He slipped out of the well-opening and followed behind quietly, his feetmaking no sound. He could see the beams made by the men's powerful torches, and with his heartthumping loudly he crept along the smelly old passages, between great caves, until the men turnedinto the wide passage where the storecave lay.
"Here it is," Dick heard one of the men say, as he flashed his torch on to the great door. "The gold's inthere so are the kids!"
The man unbolted the door at top and bottom. Dick was glad that he had slipped along to bolt thedoor, for if he hadn't done that before the men had come they would have known that Julian andGeorge had escaped, and would have been on their guard.
The man opened the door and stepped inside. The second man followed him. Dick crept as close ashe dared, waiting for the third man to go in too. Then he meant to slam the door and bolt it!
The first man swung his torch round and gave a loud exclamation. "The children are gone! Howstrange! Where are they?"
Two of the men were now in the cave and the third stepped in at that moment. Dick darted forwardand slammed the door. It made a crash that went echoing round and round the caves and passages.
Dick fumbled with the bolts, his hand trembling. They were stiff and rusty. The boy found it hard toshoot them home in their sockets. And meanwhile the men were not idle!
As soon as they heard the door slam they spun round. The third man put his shoulder to the door atonce and heaved hard. Dick had just got one of the bolts almost into its socket. Then all three menforced their strength against the door, and the bolt gave way!
Dick stared in horror. The door was opening! He turned and fled down the dark passage. The menflashed their torches on and saw him. They went after the boy at top speed.
83
Dick fled to the well-shaft. Fortunately the opening was on the opposite side, and he could clamberinto it without being seen in the light of the torches. The boy only just had time to squeeze throughinto the shaft before the three men came running by. Not one of them guessed that the runaway wassqueezed into the well-shaft they passed! Indeed, the men did not even know that there was a wellthere.
Trembling from head to foot, Dick began to climb the rope he had left dangling from the rungs of theiron ladder. He undid it when he reached the ladder itself, for he thought that perhaps the men mightdiscover the old well and try to climb up later. They would not be able to do that if there was no ropedangling down.
The boy climbed up the ladder quickly, and squeezed round the stone slab near the top. The otherchildren were there, waiting for him.
They knew at once by the look on Dick's face that he had failed in what he had tried to do. Theypulled him out quickly. "It was no good," said Dick, panting with his climb. "I couldn't do it.
They burst the door open just as I was bolting it, and chased me. I got into the shaft just in time.""They're trying to get out of the entrance now!" cried Anne, suddenly. "Quick! What shall we do?
They'll catch us all!"
"To the boat!" shouted Julian, and he took Anne's hand to help her along. "Come along! It's our onlychance. The men will perhaps be able to move those stones."The four children fled down the courtyard. George darted into the little stone room as they passed it,and caught up an axe. Dick wondered why she bothered to do that. Tim dashed along with them,barking madly.
They came to the cove. Their own boat lay there without oars. The motor-boat was there too.
George jumped into it and gave a yell of delight.
"Here are our oars!" she shouted. "Take them, Julian, I've got a job to do here! Get the boat down tothe water, quick!"
Julian and Dick took the oars. Then they dragged their boat down to the water, wondering whatGeorge was doing. All kinds of crashing sounds came from the motor-boat!
"George! George! Buck up. The men are out!" suddenly yelled Julian. He had seen the three menrunning to the cliff that led down to the cove. George leapt out of the motor-boat and joined theothers. They pushed their boat out on to the water, and George took the oars at once, pulling for allshe was worth.
84
The three men ran to their motor-boat. Then they paused in the greatest dismay for George hadcompletely ruined it! She had chopped wildly with her axe at all the machinery she could see, andnow the boat could not possibly be started! It was damaged beyond any repair the men could makewith the few tools they had.
"You wicked girl!" yelled Jake, shaking his fist at George. "Wait till I get you!""I'll wait!" shouted back George, her blue eyes shining dangerously. "And you can wait too! Youwon't be able to leave my island now!"
16.



























































Chapter Seventeen THE END OF THE GREAT ADVENTURE
Chapter Seventeen THE END OF THE GREAT ADVENTURE
THE three men stood at the edge of the sea, watching George pull away strongly from the shore.
They could do nothing. Their boat was quite useless.
"The fishing-smack they've got waiting out there is too big to use that little inlet," said George, as shepulled hard at her oars. "They'll have to stay there till someone goes in with a boat. I guess they're aswild as can be!"
Their boat had to pass fairly near to the big fishing-boat. A man hailed them as they came by.
"Ahoy there! Have you come from Kirrin Island?""Don't answer," said George. "Don't say a word." So no one said anything at all, but looked the otherway as if they hadn't heard.
"AHOY THERE!" yelled the man, angrily. "Are you deaf? Have you come from the island?"Still the children said nothing at all, but looked away while George rowed steadily. The man on theship gave it up, and looked in a worried manner towards the island. He felt sure the children hadcome from thereand he knew enough of his comrades' adventures to wonder if everything wasright on the island.
"He may put out a boat from the smack and go and see what's happening," said George. "Well, hecan't do much except take the men off with a few ingots! I hardly think they'll dare to take any ofthe gold though, now that we've escaped to tell our tale!"85
Julian looked behind at the ship. He saw after a time that the little boat it carried was being loweredinto the sea. "You're right," he said to George. "They're afraid something is up. They're going torescue those three men. What a pity!"
Their little boat reached land. The children leapt out into the shallow water and dragged it up to thebeach. Tim pulled at the rope too, wagging his tail. He loved to join in anything that the childrenwere doing.
"Shall you take Tim to Alf?" asked Dick.
George shook her head. "No," she said, "we haven't any time to waste. We must go and telleverything that has happened. I'll tie Tim up to the fence in the front garden."They made their way to Kirrin Cottage at top speed. Aunt Fanny was gardening there. She stared insurprise to see the hurrying children.
"Why," she said, "I thought you were not coming back till tomorrow or the next day! Has anythinghappened? What's the matter with Dick's cheek?""Nothing much," said Dick.
The others chimed in.
"Aunt Fanny, where's Uncle Quentin? We have something important to tell him!""Mother, we've had such an adventure!"
"Aunt Fanny, we've an awful lot to tell you! We really have!"Aunt Fanny looked at the untidy children in amazement. "Whatever has happened?" she said.
Then she turned towards the house and called, "Quentin! Quentin! The children have something totell us!"
Uncle Quentin came out, looking rather cross, for he was in the middle of his work. "What's thematter?" he asked.
"Uncle, it's about Kirrin Island," said Julian, eagerly. "Those men haven't bought it yet, have they?""Well, it's practically sold," said his uncle. "I've signed my part, and they are to sign their parttomorrow. Why? What's that to do with you?""Uncle, those men won't sign tomorrow," said Julian. "Do you know why they wanted to buy theisland and the castle? Not because they really wanted to build an hotel or anything like thatbutbecause they knew the lost gold was hidden there!""What nonsense are you talking?" said his uncle.
86
"It isn't nonsense, Father!" cried George indignantly. "It's all true. The map of the old castle was inthat box you sold and in the map was shown where the ingots were hidden by my great-great-great-grandfather!"
George's father looked amazed and annoyed. He simply didn't believe a word! But his wife saw bythe solemn and serious faces of the four children that something important really had happened. Andthen Anne suddenly burst into loud sobs! The excitement had been too much for her and she couldn'tbear to think that her uncle wouldn't believe that everything was true.
"Aunt Fanny, Aunt Fanny, it's all true!" she sobbed. "Uncle Quentin is horrid not to believe us.
Oh, Aunt Fanny, the man had a revolver and oh, he made Julian and George prisoners in thedungeons and Dick had to climb down the well to rescue them. And George has smashed up theirmotor-boat to stop them escaping!"
Her aunt and uncle couldn't make head or tail of this, but Uncle Quentin suddenly seemed to thinkthat the matter was serious and worth looking into. "Smashed up a motor-boat!" he said.
"Whatever for? Come indoors. I shall have to hear the story from beginning to end. It seems quiteunbelievable to me."
They all trooped indoors. Anne sat on her aunt's knee and listened to George and Julian telling thewhole story. They told it well and left nothing out. Aunt Fanny grew quite pale as she listened,especially when she heard about Dick climbing down the well.
"You might have been killed," she said. "Oh, Dick! What a brave thing to do!"Uncle Quentin listened in the utmost amazement. He had never had much liking or admiration forany children he always thought they were noisy, tiresome, and silly. But now, as he listened toJulian's tale, he changed his mind about these four children at once!
"You've been very clever," he said. "And very brave too. I'm proud of you. Yes, I'm very proud ofyou all. No wonder you didn't want me to sell the island, George, when you knew about the ingots!
But why didn't you tell me?"
The four children stared at him and didn't answer. They couldn't very well say, "Well, firstly, youwouldn't have believed us. Secondly, you are bad-tempered and unjust and we are frightened of you.
Thirdly, we didn't trust you enough to do the right thing.""Why don't you answer?" said their uncle. His wife answered for them, in a gentle voice.
87
"Quentin, you scare the children, you know, and I don't expect they liked to go to you. But now thatthey have, you will be able to take matters into your own hands. The children cannot do any more.
You must ring up the police and see what they have to say about all this.""Right," said Uncle Quentin, and he got up at once. He patted Julian on the back. "You have all donewell," he said. Then he ruffled George's short curly hair. "And I'm proud of you, too, George," hesaid. "You're as good as a boy any day!"
"Oh Father!" said George, going red with surprise and pleasure. She smiled at him and he smiledback. The children noticed that he had a very nice face when he smiled. He and George were reallyvery alike to look at. Both looked ugly when they sulked and frowned and both were good to lookat when they laughed or smiled!
George's father went off to telephone the police and his lawyer too. The children sat and ate biscuitsand plums, telling their aunt a great many little details they had forgotten when telling the storybefore.
As they sat there, there came a loud and angry bark from the front garden. George looked up.
"That's Tim," she said, with an anxious look at her mother. "I hadn't time to take him to Alf, whokeeps him for me. Mother, Tim was such a comfort to us on the island, you know. I'm sorry he'sbarking now but I expect he's hungry."
"Well, fetch him in," said her mother, unexpectedly. "He's quite a hero, too we must give him agood dinner."
George smiled in delight. She sped out of the door and went to Tim. She set him free and he camebounding indoors, wagging his long tail. He licked George's mother and cocked his ears at her.
"Good dog," she said, and actually patted him. "I'll get you some dinner!"Tim trotted out to the kitchen with her. Julian grinned at George. "Well, look at that," he said.
"Your mother's a brick, isn't she?"
"Yes but I don't know what Father will say when he sees Tim in the house again," said George,doubtfully.
Her father came back at that minute, his face grave. "The police take a serious view of all this,"he said, "and so does my lawyer. They all agree in thinking that you children have been remarkablyclever and brave. And George my lawyer says that the ingots definitely belong to us. Are therereally a lot?"
88
"Father! There are hundreds!" cried George. "Simply hundreds all in a big pile in the dungeon.
Oh, Fathershall we be rich now?"
"Yes", said her father. "We shall. Rich enough to give you and your mother all the things I've longedto give you for so many years and couldn't. I've worked hard enough for you but it's not the kind ofwork that brings in a lot of money, and so I've become irritable and bad-tempered. But now you shallhave everything you want!"
"I don't really want anything I haven't already got," said George. "But Father, there is one thing I'dlike more than anything else in the world and it won't cost you a penny!""You shall have it, my dear!" said her father, slipping his arm round George, much to her surprise.
"Just say what it is and even if it costs a hundred pounds you shall have it!"Just then there came the pattering of big feet down the passage to the room they were in. A big hairyhead pushed itself through the door and looked inquiringly at everyone there. It was Tim, of course!
Uncle Quentin stared at him in surprise. "Why, isn't that Tim?" he asked. "Hallo, Tim!""Father! Tim is the thing I want most in all the world," said George, squeezing her father's arm.
"You can't think what a friend he was to us on the island and he wanted to fly at those men andfight them. Oh, Father, I don't want any other present I only want to keep Tim and have him herefor my very own. We could afford to give him a proper kennel to sleep in now, and I'd see that hedidn't disturb you, I really would."
"Well, of course you can have him!" said her fatherand Tim came right into the room at once,wagging his tail, looking for all the world as if he had understood every word that had been said.
He actually licked Uncle Quentin's hand! Anne thought that was very brave of him.
But Uncle Quentin was quite different now. It seemed as if a great weight had been lifted off hisshoulders. They were rich now George could go to a good school and his wife could have thethings he had so much wanted her to have and he would be able to go on with the work he lovedwithout feeling that he was not earning enough to keep his family in comfort. He beamed round ateveryone, looking as jolly a person as anyone could wish!
George was overjoyed about Tim. She flung her arms round her father's neck and hugged him, a thingshe had not done for a long time. He looked astonished but very pleased. "Well, well," he said, "thisis all very pleasant. Hallo is this the police already?"89
It was. They came up to the door and had a few words with Uncle Quentin. Then one stayed behindto take down the children's story in his note-book and the others went off to get a boat to the island.
The men had gone from there! The boat from the fishing-smack had fetched them away! and nowboth ship and boat had disappeared! The motor-boat was still there, quite unusable. The inspectorlooked at it with a grin.
"Fierce young lady, isn't she, that Miss Georgina?" he said. "Done this job pretty well no one couldget away in this boat. We'll have to get it towed into harbour."The police brought back with them some of the ingots of gold to show Uncle Quentin. They hadsealed up the door of the dungeon so that no one else could get in until the children's uncle was readyto go and fetch the gold. Everything was being done thoroughly and properly though far too slowlyfor the children! They had hoped that the men would have been caught and taken to prison and thatthe police would bring back the whole of the gold at once!
They were all very tired that night and didn't make any fuss at all when their aunt said that they mustgo to bed early. They undressed and then the boys went to eat their supper in the girls'
bedroom. Tim was there, ready to lick up any fallen crumbs.
"Well, I must say we've had a wonderful adventure," said Julian, sleepily. "In a way I'm sorry it'sended -though at times I didn't enjoy it very much especially when you and I, George, wereprisoners in that dungeon. That was awful."George was looking very happy as she nibbled her gingerbread biscuits. She grinned at Julian.
"And to think I hated the idea of you all coming here to stay!" she said. "I was going to be such abeast to you! I was going to make you wish you were all home again! And now the only thing thatmakes me sad is the idea of you going away which you will do, of course, when the holidays end.
And then, after having three friends with me, enjoying adventures like this, I'll be all on my ownagain. I've never been lonely before but I know I shall be now.""No, you won't," said Anne, suddenly. "You can do something that will stop you being lonely everagain."
"What?" said George in surprise.
"You can ask to go to the same boarding-school as I go to," said Anne. "It's such a lovely oneand we are allowed to keep our pets, so Tim could come too!"90
"Gracious! Could he really?" said George, her eyes shining. "Well, I'll go then. I always said Iwouldn'tbut I will because I see now how much better and happier it is to be with others than all bymyself. And if I can have Tim, well that's simply wonderful!""You'd better go back to your own bedroom now, boys," said Aunt Fanny, appearing at the doorway.
"Look at Dick, almost dropping with sleep! Well, you should all have pleasant dreams tonight, foryou've had an adventure to be proud of. George is that Tim under your bed?""Well, yes it is, Mother," said George, pretending to be surprised. "Dear me! Tim, what are you doinghere?"
Tim crawled out and went over to George's mother. He lay flat on his tummy and looked up at hermost appealingly out of his soft brown eyes.
"Do you want to sleep in the girls' room tonight?" said George's mother, with a laugh. "All rightjust for once!"
" Mother!" yelled George, overjoyed. "Oh, thank you, thank you, thank you! How did you guess thatI just didn't want to be parted from Tim tonight? Oh, Mother! Tim, you can sleep on the rug overthere."
Four happy children snuggled down into their beds. Their wonderful adventure had come to a happyend. They had plenty of holidays still in front of them and now that Uncle Quentin was no longerpoor, he would give them the little presents he wanted to. George was going to school with Anneand she had Tim for her own again! The island and castle still belonged to George everything wasmarvellous!
"I'm so glad Kirrin Island wasn't sold, George," said Anne, sleepily. "I'm so glad it still belongs toyou."
"It belongs to three other people too," said George. "It belongs to me and to you and Julian andDick. I've discovered that it's fun to share things. So tomorrow I am going to draw up a deed, orwhatever it's called, and put in it that I give you and the others a quarter-share each. Kirrin Island andCastle shall belong to us all!"
"Oh, George how lovely!" said Anne, delighted. "Won't the boys be pleased? I do feel so ha..."
But before she could finish, the little girl was asleep. So was George. In the other room the two boysslept, too, dreaming of ingots and dungeons and all kinds of exciting things.
91
Only one person was awake  and that was Tim. He had one ear up and was listening to thechildren's breathing. As soon as he knew they were asleep he got up quietly from his rug. He creptsoftly over to George's bed. He put his front paws up and sniffed at the sleeping girl.
Then, with a bound he was on the bed, and snuggled himself down into the crook of her legs. Hegave a sigh, and shut his eyes. The four children might be happy but Tim was happiest of all.
"Oh, Tim," murmured George, half waking up as she felt him against her. "Oh, Tim, you mustn'tbut you do feel so nice. Tim we'll have other adventures together, the five of uswon't we?"
They will but that's another story!
THE END
17.
























































































                  

Chapter One CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS
Chapter One CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS
IT was the last week of the Christmas term, and all the girls at Gaylands School were lookingforward to the Christmas holidays. Anne sat down at the breakfast-table and picked up a letteraddressed to her.
'Hallo, look at this!' she said to her cousin Georgina, who was sitting beside her. 'A letter from Daddy- and I only had one from him and Mummy yesterday.'
'I hope it's not bad news,' said George, She would not allow anyone to call her Georgina, and noweven the mistresses called her George. She really was very like a boy with her short curly hair, andher boyish ways. She looked anxiously at Anne as her cousin read the letter.
'Oh, George - we can't go home for the holidays!' said Anne, with tears in her eyes. 'Mummy's gotscarlet fever and Daddy is in quarantine for it - so they can't have us back. Isn't it just too bad?'
'Oh, I am sorry,' said George. She was just as disappointed for herself as for Anne, because Anne'smother had invited George, and her dog Timothy to stay for the Christmas holidays with them. Shehad been promised many things she had never seen before - the pantomime, and the circus - and a bigparty with a fine Christmas tree! Now it wouldn't happen.
'Whatever will the two boys say?' said Anne, thinking of Julian and Dick, her two brothers. 'Theywon't be able to go home either.'
'Well - what are you going to do for the holidays then?' asked George. 'Won't you come and stay atKirrin Cottage with me? I'm sure my mother would love to have you again. We had such fun whenyou came to stay for the summer holls,'
'Wait a minute - let me finish the letter and see what Daddy says, said Anne, picking up the noteagain. 'Poor Mummy - I do hope she isn't feeling very ill.'
She read a few more lines and then gave such a delighted exclamation that George and the other girlswaited impatiently for her to explain.
'George! We are to come to you again - but oh blow, blow, blow! - we've got to have a tutor for theholls, partly to look after us so that your mother doesn't have too much bother with us, and partlybecause both Julian and Dick have been ill with 'flu twice this term, and have got behind in theirwork.'
2
'A tutor! How sickening! That means I'll have to do lessons too, I'll bet!' said George, in dismay.
'When my mother and father see my report I guess they'll find out how little I know. After all, this isthe first time I've ever been to a proper school, and there are heaps of things I don't know.'
'What horrid holls they'll be, if we have a tutor running after us all the time,' said Anne, gloomily. 'Iexpect I'll have quite a good report, because I've done well in the exams - but it won't be any fun forme not doing lessons with you three in the holls. Though, of course, I could go off with Timothy, Isuppose. He won't be doing lessons!'
'Yes, he will,' said George, at once. She could not bear the idea of her beloved dog Timothy going offeach morning with Anne, whilst she, George, sat and worked hard with Julian and Dick.
'Timothy can't do lessons, don't be silly, George,' said Anne.
'He can sit under my feet whilst I'm doing them,' said George. 'It will be a great help to feel him there.
For goodness' sake eat up your sausages, Anne. We've all nearly finished. The bell will go in a minuteand you won't have had any breakfast.' -
'I am glad Mummy isn't very bad,' said Anne, hurriedly finishing her letter. 'Daddy says he's writtento Dick and Julian - and to your father to ask him to engage a tutor for us. Oh dash - this is an awfuldisappointment, isn't it? I don't mean I shan't enjoy going to Kirrin Cottage again -and seeing Kirrin Island - but after all there are no pantomimes or circuses or parties to look forwardto at Kirrin.'
The end of the term came quickly. Anne and George packed up their trunks, and put on the labels,enjoying the noise and excitement of the last two days. The big school coaches rolled up to the door,and the girls clambered in.
'Off to Kirrin again!' said Anne. 'Come on, Timothy darling, you can sit between me and George.'
Gaylands School allowed the children to keep their own pets, and Timothy, George's big mongreldog, had been a great success. Except for the time when he had run after the dustman, and draggedthe dustbin away from him, all the way up the school grounds and into George's classroom, he hadreally behaved extremely well.
'I'm sure you'll have a good report, Tim,' said George, giving the dog a hug. 'We're going home again.
Will you like that?'
3
'Woof,' said Tim, in his deep voice. He stood up, wagging his tail, and there was a squeal from theseat behind.
'George! Make Tim sit down. He's wagging my hat off!'
It was not very long before the two girls and Timothy were in London, being put into the train forKirrin.
'I do wish the boys broke up today too,' sighed Anne. 'Then we could all have gone down to Kirrintogether. That would have been fun.'
Julian and Dick broke up the next day and were to join the girls then at Kirrin Cottage. Anne wasvery much looking forward to seeing them again. A term was a long time to be away from oneanother. She had been glad to have her cousin George with her. The three of them had stayed withGeorge in the summer, and had had some exciting adventures together on the little island off thecoast. An old castle stood on the island and in the dungeons the children had made all kinds ofwonderful discoveries.
'It will be lovely to go across to Kirrin Island again, George,' said Anne, as the train sped off towardsthe west.
'We shan't be able to,' said George. 'The sea is terribly rough round the island in the winter. It wouldbe too dangerous to try and row there.'
'Oh, what a pity,' said Anne disappointed. 'I was looking forward to some more adventures there.'
'There won't be any adventures at Kirrin in the winter,' said George. 'It's cold down there - and whenit snows we sometimes get frozen up completely - can't even walk to the village because the sea-windblows the snow-drifts so high.'
'Oooh - that sounds rather exciting!' said Anne.
'Well, it isn't really,' said George. 'It's awfully boring - nothing to do but sit at home all day, or turnout with a spade and dig the snow away.'
It was a long time before the train reached the little station that served Kirrin. But at last it was theresteaming in slowly and stopping at the tiny platform. The two girls jumped out eagerly, and looked tosee if anyone had met them. Yes - there was George's mother!
'Hallo, George darling - hallo, Anne!' said George's mother, and gave both children a hug. 'Anne, I'mso sorry about your mother, but she's getting on all right, you'll be glad to know.'
4
'Oh, good!' said Anne. 'It's nice of you to have us, Aunt Fanny. We'll try and be good! What aboutUncle Quentin? Will he mind having four children in the house in the winter-time? We won't be ableto go out and leave him in peace as often as we did in the summer!'
George's father was a scientist, a very clever man, but rather frightening. He had little patience withchildren, and the four of them had felt very much afraid of him at times in the summer.
'Oh, your uncle is still working very hard at his book,' said Aunt Fanny. 'You know, he has beenworking out a secret theory - a secret idea - and putting it all into his book. He says that once it is allexplained and finished, he is to take it to some high authority, and then his idea will be used for thegood of the country.'
'Oh, Aunt Fanny - it does sound exciting,' said Anne. 'What's the secret?'
'I can't tell you that, silly child,' said her aunt, laughing. 'Why, even I myself don't know it. Comealong, now - it's cold standing here. Timothy looks very fat and well, George dear.'
'Oh Mother, he's had a marvellous time at school,' said George. 'He really has. He chewed up thecook's old slippers ...'
'And he chased the cat that lives in the stables every time he saw her,' said Anne.
'And he once got into the larder and ate a whole steak pie,' said George; 'and once...'
'Good gracious, George, I should think the school will refuse to have Timothy next term,' said hermother, in horror. 'Wasn't he well punished? I hope he was.'
'No - he wasn't,' said George, going rather red. 'You see, Mother, we are responsible for our pets andtheir behaviour ourselves - so if ever Timothy does anything bad I'm punished for it, because Ihaven't shut him up properly, or something like that.'
'Well, you must have had quite a lot of punishments then,' said her mother, as she drove the littlepony-trap along the frosty roads. 'I really think that's rather a good idea!' There was a twinkle in hereyes, as she spoke.
I think I'll keep on with the same idea - punish you every time Timothy misbehaves himself!'
The girls laughed. They felt happy and excited. Holidays were fun. Going back to Kirrin was lovely.
Tomorrow the boys would come - and then Christmas would be there!
'Good old Kirrin Cottage!' said Anne, as they came in sight of the pretty old house. 'Oh - look, there'sKirrin Island!' The two looked out to sea, where the old ruined castle stood on the little island ofKirrin - what adventures they had had there in the summer!
The girls went into the house. 'Quentin!' called George's mother. 'Quentin! The girls are here.'
5
Uncle Quentin came out of his study at the other side of the house. Anne thought he looked taller anddarker than ever. 'And frowner!' she said to herself. Uncle Quentin might be very clever, but Annepreferred someone jolly and smiling like her own father. She shook hands with her uncle politely, andwatched George kiss him.
'Well!' said Uncle Quentin to Anne. 'I hear I've got to get a tutor for you! At least, for the two boys.
My word, you will have to behave yourself with a tutor I can tell you!'
This was meant to be a joke, but it didn't sound very nice to Anne and George. People you had tobehave well with were usually very strict and tiresome. Both girls were glad when George's fatherhad gone back into his study.
'Your father has been working far too hard lately,' said George's mother to her. 'He is tired out.
Thank goodness his book is nearly finished. He had hoped to finish it by Christmas so that he couldjoin in the fun and games - but now he says he can't.'
'What a pity,' said Anne, politely, though secretly she thought it was a good thing. It wouldn't bemuch fun having Uncle Quentin to play charades and things like that! 'Oh, Aunt Fanny, I'm solooking forward to seeing Julian and Dick - and won't they be pleased to see Tim and George?
Aunt Fanny, nobody calls George Georgina at school, not even our Form mistress. I was ratherhoping they would, because I wanted to see what would happen when she refused to answer toGeorgina! George, you liked school, didn't you?"'Yes,' said George, - I did. I thought I'd hate being with a lot of others, but it's fun, after all. ButMother, you won't find my report very good, I'm afraid. There were such a lot of things I was bad atbecause I'd never done them before.'
'Well, you'd never been to school before!' said her mother. I'll explain it to your father if he getsupset. Now go along and get ready for a late tea. You must be very hungry.'
The girls went upstairs to their little room. 'I'm glad I'm not spending my holls by myself,' saidGeorge. 'I've had much more fun since I've known you and the boys. Hie, Timothy, where have yougone?'
'He's gone to smell all round the house to make sure it's his proper home!' said Anne, with a giggle.
'He wants to know if the kitchen smells the same - and the bathroom - and his basket. It must be justas exciting for him to come home for the holls as it is for us!'
Anne was right. Timothy was thrilled to be back again.
6
He ran round George's mother, sniffing at her legs in friendliness, pleased to see her again. He raninto the kitchen but soon came out again because someone new was there - Joanna the cook -a fat, panting person who eyed him with suspicion.
'You can come into this kitchen once a day for your dinner,' said Joanna. 'And that's all. I'm nothaving meat and sausages and chicken disappearing under my nose if I can help it. I know what dogsare, I do!'
Timothy ran into the scullery and sniffed round there. He ran into the dining-room and the sitting-room, and was pleased to find they had the same old smell. He put his nose to the door of the studywhere George's father worked, and sniffed very cautiously. He didn't mean to go in.
Timothy was just as wary of George's father as the others were!
He ran upstairs to the girls' bedroom again. Where was his basket? Ah, there it was by the window-seat. Good! That meant he was to sleep in the girls' bedroo
1.

































































Chapter Two ALL TOGETHER AGAIN
Chapter Two ALL TOGETHER AGAIN
THE next day the boys came back. Anne and George went to meet them with Timothy. George drovethe pony-trap, and Tim sat beside her. Anne could hardly wait for the train to stop at the station. Sheran along the platform, looking for Julian and Dick in the carriages that passed.
Then she saw them. They were looking out of a window at the back of the train, waving and yelling.
'Anne! Anne! Here we are! Hallo, George! Oh, there's Timothy!'
'Julian! Dick!' yelled Anne. Timothy began to bark and leap about. It was most exciting.
'Oh, Julian! It's lovely to see you both again!' cried Anne, giving her two brothers a hug each.
Timothy leapt up and licked them both. He was beside himself with joy. Now he had all the childrenaround him that he loved.
7
The three children and the dog stood happily together, all talking at once whilst the porter got theluggage out of the train. Anne suddenly remembered George. She looked round her. She wasnowhere to be seen, although she had come on the station platform with Anne.
'Where's old George?' said Julian. 'I saw her here when I waved out of the window.'
'She must have gone back to the pony-trap,' said Anne. 'Tell the porter to bring your trunks out to thetrap, Julian. Come along! We'll go and find George.'
George was standing by the pony, holding his head. She looked rather gloomy, Anne thought.
The boys went up to her.
'Hallo, George, old thing!' cried Julian, and gave her a hug. Dick did the same.
'What's up?' asked Anne, wondering at George's sudden silence.
'I believe George felt left-cut!' said Julian with a grin. 'Funny old Georgina!'
'Don't call me Georgina!' said the little girl fiercely. The boys laughed.
'Ah, it's the same fierce old George, all right,' said Dick, and he gave the girl a friendly slap on theshoulder. 'Oh, George - it's good to see you again. Do you remember our marvellous adventures inthe summer?'
George felt her awkwardness slipping away from her. She had felt left-out when she had seen thegreat welcome that the two boys gave to their small sister, but no one could sulk for long with Julianand Dick. They just wouldn't let anyone feel left-out or awkward or sulky.
The four children climbed into the trap. The porter heaved in the two trunks. There was only justroom for them. Timothy sat on top of the trunks, his tail wagging nineteen to the dozen, and histongue hanging out because he was panting with delight.
'You two girls were lucky to be able to take Tim to school with you,' said Dick, patting the big doglovingly.
'No pets are allowed at our school. Awfully hard on those fellows who like live things.'
'Thompson Minor kept white mice,' said Julian. 'And one day they escaped and met Matron round acorner of the passage. She squealed the place down.'
The girls laughed. The boys always had funny tales to tell when they got home.
'And Kennedy keeps snails,' said Dick. 'You know, snails sleep for the winter - but Kennedy kept hisin far too warm a place, and they all crawled out of their box and went up the walls. You should haveheard how we laughed when the geography master asked Thompson to point out Cape Town on themap - and there was one of the snails in the very place!'
8
Everyone laughed again. It was so good to be all together once more. They were very much of an age- Julian was twelve, George and Dick were eleven, and Anne was ten. Holidays and Christmas timewere in front of them. No wonder they laughed at everything, even the silliest little joke!
'It's good that Mummy is getting on all right, isn't it?' said Dick, as the pony went along the road at aspanking trot. It was disappointed not to go home, I must say - I did want to go to see Aladdin andthe Lamp, and the Circus - but still, it's good to be back at Kirrin Cottage again. I wish we could havesome more exciting adventures. Not a hope of that this time, though.'
'There's one snag about these holls,' said Julian. 'And that's the tutor. I hear we've got to have onebecause Dick and I missed so much school this term, and we've got to take scholarship exams nextsummer.'
'Yes,' said Anne. 'I wonder what he'll be like. I do hope he will be a sport. Uncle Quentin is going tochoose one today.'
Julian and Dick made faces at one another. They felt sure that any tutor chosen by Uncle Quentinwould be anything but a sport. Uncle Quentin's idea of a tutor would be somebody strict and gloomyand forbidding.
Never mind! He wouldn't come for a day or two. And he might be fun. The boys cheered up andpulled Timothy's thick coat. The dog pretended to growl and bite. He wasn't worried about tutors.
Lucky Timothy!
They all arrived at Kirrin Cottage. The boys were really pleased to see their aunt, and rather relievedwhen she said that their uncle had not yet come back.
'He's gone to see two or three men who have answered the advertisement for a tutor,' she said.
'He won't be long before he's back.'
'Mother, I haven't got to do lessons in the holls too, have I?' asked George. Nothing had yet been saidto her about this, and she longed to know.
'Oh yes, George,' said her mother. 'Your father has seen your report, and although it isn't really a badone, and we certainly didn't expect a marvellous one, still it does show that you are behind your agein some things. A little extra coaching will soon help you along.'
George looked gloomy. She had expected this but it was tiresome all the same. 'Anne's the only onewho won't have to do lessons,' she said.
9
Ill do some too,' promised Anne. 'Perhaps not always, George, if it's a very fine day, for instance- but sometimes, just to keep you company.'
'Thanks,' said George. 'But you needn't. I shall have Timmy.'
George's mother looked doubtful about this. 'We'll have to see what the tutor says about that, shesaid.
'Mother! If the tutor says I can't have Timothy in the room, I jolly well won't do holiday lessons!
began George, fiercely.
Her mother laughed. 'Well, well - here's our fierce, hot-tempered George again! she said. 'Go along,you two boys, and wash your hands and do your hair. You seem to have collected all the smuts on therailway.'
The children and Timothy went upstairs. It was such fun to be five again. They always counted Timas one of themselves. He went everywhere with them, and really seemed to understand every singleword they said.
'I wonder what sort of a tutor Uncle Quentin will choose,' said Dick, as he scrubbed his nails. 'If onlyhe would choose the right kind - someone jolly and full of fun, who knows that holiday lessons aresickening to have, and tries to make up for them by being a sport out of lesson-time. I suppose we'llhave to work every morning.'
'Hurry up. I want my tea,' said Julian. 'Come on down, Dick. We'll know about the tutor soonenough.
They all went down together, and sat round the table. Joanna the cook had made a lovely lot of bunsand a great big cake. There was not much left of either by the time the four children had finished!
Uncle Quentin returned just as they were finishing. He seemed rather pleased with himself. He shookhands with the two boys and asked them if they had had a good term.
'Did you get a tutor, Uncle Quentin?' asked Anne, who could see that everyone was simply burstingto know this.
'Ah - yes, I did,' said her uncle. He sat down, whilst Aunt Fanny poured him out a cup of tea. 'Iinterviewed three applicants, and had almost chosen the last one, when another fellow came in, all ina hurry. Said he had only just seen the advertisement, and hoped he wasn't too late.'
'Did you choose him?' asked Dick.
10
'I did,' said his uncle. 'He seemed a most intelligent fellow. Even knew about me and my work!
And he had the most wonderful letters of recommendation.'
'I don't think the children need to know all these details,' murmured Aunt Fanny. 'Anyway - youasked him to come?'
'Oh yes,' said Uncle Quentin. 'He's a good bit older than the others - they were rather young fellows -this one seems very responsible and intelligent. I'm sure you'll like him, Fanny. He'll fit in here verywell. I feel I would like to have him to talk to me sometimes in the evening.'
The children couldn't help feeling that the new tutor sounded rather alarming. Their uncle smiled atthe gloomy faces.
'You'll like Mr. Roland,' he said. 'He knows how to handle youngsters - knows he's got to be veryfirm, and to see that you know a good bit more at the end of the holidays than you did at thebeginning.'
This sounded even more alarming. All four children wished heartily that Aunt Fanny had been tochoose the tutor, and not Uncle Quentin.
'When is he coming?' asked George.
'Tomorrow,' said her father. 'You can all go to meet him at the station. That will be a nice welcomefor him.'
'We had thought of taking the bus and going to do a bit of Christmas shopping,' said Julian, seeingAnne looked very disappointed.
'Oh, no, you must certainly go and meet Mr. Roland,' said his uncle. 'I told him you would. And mindyou, you four - no nonsense with him! You've to do as you're told, and you must work hard with him,because your father is paying very high fees for his coaching. I'm paying a third, because I want himto coach George a little too - so George, you must do your best.'
'I'll try,' said George. 'If he's nice, I'll do my very best.'
'You'll do your best whether you think him nice or not!' said her father, frowning. 'He will arrive bythe ten-thirty train. Be sure to be there in time.'
'I do hope he won't be too strict, said Dick, that evening, when the five of them were alone for aminute or two. 'It's going to spoil the holls, if we have someone down on us all the time. And I dohope he'll like Timothy.
George looked up at once. 'Like Timothy!' she said. 'Of course he'll like Timothy! How couldn't he?
11
'Well - your father didn't like Timothy very much last summer, said Dick. I don't see how anyonecould dislike darling Tim - but there are people who don't like dogs, you know, George.'
'If Mr. Roland doesn't like Timothy, I'll not do a single thing for him,' said George. 'Not one singlething!'
'She's gone all fierce again!' said Dick, with a laugh. 'My word - the sparks will fly if Mr. Rolanddares to dislike our Timothy!'
2.














20





121110


































1030




Chapter Three THE NEW TUTOR
Chapter Three THE NEW TUTOR
NEXT morning the sun was out, all the sea-mist that had hung about for the last two days haddisappeared, and Kirrin Island showed plainly at the mouth of Kirrin Bay. The children staredlongingly at the ruined castle on it.
'I do wish we could get over to the castle,' said Dick. 'It looks quite calm enough, George.'
'It's very rough by the island,' said George. 'It always is at this time of year. I know Mother wouldn'tlet us go.'
'It's a lovely island, and it's all our own!' said Anne. 'You said you would share it with us for ever andever didn't you, George?'
'Yes, I did,' said George. 'And so I will, dungeons and all. Come on - we must get the trap out.
We shall be late meeting the train if we stand here all day looking at the island.'
They got the pony and trap and set off down the hard lanes. Kirrin Island disappeared behind thecliffs as they turned inland to the station.
'Did all this land round about belong to your family once upon a time?' asked Julian.
'Yes, all of it,' said George. 'Now we don't own anything except Kirrin Island, our own house -and that farm away over there - Kirrin Farm.'
She pointed with her whip. The children saw a fine old farm-house standing on a hill a good way off,over the heather-clad common.
'Who lives there?' asked Julian.
12
'Oh, an old farmer and his wife,' said George. 'They were nice to me when I was smaller. We'll goover there one day if you like. Mother says they don't make the farm pay any more, and in thesummer-time they take in people who want a holiday.'
'Hark! That's the train whistling in the tunnel!' said Julian, suddenly. 'Buck up, for goodness'
sake, George. We shan't be there in time!'
The four children and Timothy looked at the train coming out of the tunnel and drawing in at thestation. The pony cantered along swiftly. They would be just in time.'
'Who's going on to the platform to meet him?' asked George, as they drew into the little station yard.
Im not. I must look after Tim and the pony.'
'I don't want to,' said Anne. Ill stay with George.'
'Well, we'd better go, then,' said Julian, and he and Dick leapt out of the trap. They ran on to theplatform just as the train pulled up.
Not many people got out. A woman clambered out with a basket. A young man leapt out, whistling,the son of the baker in the village. An old man climbed down with difficulty. The tutor could be noneof those!
Then, right at the front of the train, rather a queer-looking man got out. He was short and burly, andhe had a beard rather like a sailor. His eyes were piercingly blue, and his thick hair was sprinkledwith grey. He glanced up and down the platform, and then beckoned to the porter.
'That must be Mr. Roland', said Julian to Dick. 'Come on - let's ask him. There's no one else it couldbe.'
The boys went up to the bearded man. Julian raised his cap politely. 'Are you Mr. Roland, sir?'
he asked.
'I am,' said the man. 'I suppose you are Julian and Dick?'
'Yes, sir,' answered the boys together. 'We brought the pony-trap for your luggage.'
'Oh, fine,' said Mr. Roland. His bright blue eyes looked the boys up and down, and he smiled.
Julian and Dick liked him. He seemed sensible and jolly.
'Are the other two here as well?' said Mr. Roland, walking down the platform, with the porter trailingbehind with his luggage.
'Yes - George and Anne are outside with the trap,' said Julian.
'George and Anne,' said Mr. Roland, in a puzzled voice. 'I thought the others were girls. I didn't knowthere was a third boy.'
13
'Oh, George is a girl,' said Dick, with a laugh. 'Her real name is Georgina.'
'And a very nice name too,' said Mr. Roland.
'George doesn't think so,' said Julian. 'She won't answer if she's called Georgina. You'd better call herGeorge, sir!'
'Really?' said Mr. Roland, in rather a chilly tone. Julian took a glance at him.
'Not quite so jolly as he looks!' thought the boy.
'Tim's out there too,' said Dick.
'Oh - and is Tim a boy or a girl?' inquired Mr. Roland, cautiously.
'A dog, sir!' said Dick, with a grin.
Mr. Roland seemed rather taken-aback. 'A dog?' he said. 'I didn't know there was a dog in thehousehold. Your uncle said nothing to me about a dog.'
'Don't you like dogs?' asked Julian, in surprise.
'No,' said Mr. Roland, shortly. 'But I daresay your dog won't worry me much. Hallo, hallo - so hereare the little girls! How do you do?'
George was not very pleased at being called a little girl. For one thing she hated to be spoken of aslittle, and for another thing she always tried to be a boy. She held out her hand to Mr. Roland andsaid nothing. Anne smiled at him, and Mr. Roland thought she was much the nicer of the two.
'Tim! Shake hands with Mr. Roland!' said Julian to Timothy. This was one of Tim's really goodtricks. He could hold out his right paw in a very polite manner. Mr. Roland looked down at the bigdog, and Tim looked back at him.
Then, very slowly and deliberately, Timothy turned his back on Mr. Roland and climbed up into thepony- trap! Usually he put out his paw at once when told to, and the children stared at him inamazement.
'Timothy! What's come over you?' cried Dick. Tim put his ears down and did not move.
'He doesn't like you,' said George, looking at Mr. Roland. 'That's very queer. He usually likes people.
But perhaps you don't like dogs?'
'No, I don't, as a matter of fact,' said Mr. Roland.
'I was once very badly bitten as a boy, and somehow or other I've never managed to like dogs since.
But I daresay your Tim will take to me sooner or later.'
14
They all got into the trap. It was a tight squeeze. Timothy looked at Mr. Roland's ankles as if hewould rather like to nibble them. Anne laughed.
'Tim is behaving queerly!' she said. 'It's a good thing you haven't come to teach him, Mr.
Roland!' She smiled up at the tutor, and he smiled back, showing very white teeth. His eyes were asbrilliant a blue as George's.
Anne liked him. He joked with the boys as they drove him, and both of them began to feel that theirUncle Quentin hadn't made such a bad choice after all.
Only George said nothing. She sensed that the tutor disliked Timothy, and George was not preparedto like anyone who didn't take to Timothy at first sight. She thought it was very queer too, that Timwould not shake paws with the tutor. 'He's a clever dog,' she thought. 'He knows Mr. Roland doesn'tlike him, so he won't shake hands. I don't blame you, Tim darling. I wouldn't shake hands withanyone who didn't like me!'
Mr. Roland was shown up to his room when he arrived. Aunt Fanny came down and spoke to thechildren. 'Well! He seems very nice and jolly - though it's funny to see a youngish man with a beard.'
'Youngish!' exclaimed Julian. 'Why, he's awfully old! Must be forty at the very least!'
Aunt Fanny laughed. 'Does he seem so old to you?' she said. 'Well, old or not, he'll be quite nice toyou, I'm sure.'
'Aunt Fanny, we shan't begin lessons until after Christmas, shall we?' asked Julian, anxiously.
'Of course you will!' said his aunt. 'It is almost a week till Christmas - you don't suppose we haveasked Mr. Roland to come and do nothing till Christmas is over, do you?'
The children groaned. 'We wanted to do some Christmas shopping,' said Anne.
'Well, you can do that in the afternoons,' said her aunt. 'You will only do lessons in the morning, forthree hours. That won't hurt any of you!'
The new tutor came downstairs at that moment, and Aunt Fanny took him to see Uncle Quentin.
She came out after a while, looking very pleased.
'Mr. Roland will be nice company for your uncle,' she said to Julian. 'I think they will get on verywell together. Mr. Roland seems to understand quite a bit about your uncle's work.'
'Let's hope he spends most of his time with him then!' said George, in a low voice.
'Come on out for a walk,' said Dick. 'It's so fine today. We shan't have lessons this morning, shall we,Aunt Fanny?'
15
'Oh, no,' said his aunt. 'You'll begin tomorrow. Go for a walk now, all of you - we shan't often getsunny days like this!'
'Let's go over to Kirrin Farm,' said Julian. 'It looks such a nice place. Show us the way, George.'
'Right!' said George. She whistled to Timothy, and he came bounding up. The five of them set offtogether, going down the lane, and then on to a rough road over the common that led to the farm onthe distant hill.
It was lovely walking in the December sun. Their feet rang on the frosty path, and Tim's blunt clawsmade quite a noise as he pattered up and down, overjoyed at being with his four friends again.
After a good long walk across the common the children came to the farm-house. It was built of whitestone, and stood strong and lovely on the hillside. George opened the farm-gate and went into thefarm-yard. She kept her hand on Tim's collar for there were two farm-dogs somewhere about.
Someone clattered round the barn near by. It was an old man, and George hailed him loudly.
'Hallo, Mr. Sanders! How are you?'
'Why, if it isn't Master George!' said the old fellow with a grin. George grinned too. She loved beingcalled Master instead of Miss.
'These are my cousins,' shouted George. She turned to the others. 'He's deaf,' she said. 'You'll have toshout to make him hear.'
Im Julian,' said Julian in a loud voice and the others said their names too. The farmer beamed atthem.
'You come along in and see the Missis,' he said. 'She'll be rare pleased to see you all. We've knownMaster George since she was a baby, and we knew her mother when she was a baby too, and weknew her granny as well.'
'You must be very, very old,' said Anne.
The farmer smiled down at her.
'As old as my tongue and a little older than my teeth!' he said, chuckling. 'Come away in now.'
They all went into the big, warm farm-house kitchen, where a little old woman, as lively as a bantamhen, was bustling about. She was just as pleased to see the four children as her husband was.
16
'Well, there now!' she said. 'I haven't seen you for months, Master George. I did hear that you'd goneaway to school.'
'Yes, I did,' said George. 'But I'm home for the holidays now. Does it matter if I let Timothy loose,Mrs. Sanders? I think he'll be friendly if your dogs are, too.'
'Yes, you let him loose,' said the old lady. 'He'll have a fine time in the farm-yard with Ben andRikky. Now what would you like to drink? Hot milk? Cocoa? Coffee? And I've some new shortbreadbaked yesterday. You shall have some of that.'
'Ah, the wife's very busy this week, cooking up all sorts of things,' said the old farmer, as his wifebustled off to the larder. 'We've company this Christmas!'
'Have you?' said George, surprised, for she knew that the old pair had never had any children of theirown. 'Who is coming? Anyone I know?'
'Two artists from London Town!' said the old farmer. 'Wrote and asked us to take them for threeweeks over Christmas - and offered us good money too. So the old wife's as busy as a bee.'
'Are they going to paint pictures?' asked Julian, who rather fancied himself as an artist, too. 'I wonderif I could come and talk to them some day. I'm rather good at pictures myself. They might give me afew hints.'
'You come along whenever you like,' said old Mrs. Sanders, making cocoa in a big jug. She set out aplate of most delicious-looking shortbreads, and the children ate them hungrily.
'I should think the two artists will be rather lonely down here, in the depths of the country atChristmas time,' said George. 'Do they know anyone?'
'They say they don't know a soul,' said Mrs. Sanders. 'But there - artists are queer folk. I've had somehere before. They seemed to like mooning about all alone. These two will be happy enough, I'll bebound.'
'They should be, with all the good things you're cooking up for them,' said her old husband.
'Well, I must be out after the sheep. Good-day to you, youngsters. Come again and see us sometimes.'
He went out. Old Mrs. Sanders chattered on to the children as she bustled about the big kitchen.
Timothy ran in and settled down on the rug by the fire.
He suddenly saw a tabby cat slinking along by the wall, all her hairs on end with fear of the strangedog. He gave a delighted wuff and sprang at the cat. She fled out of the kitchen into the old panelledhall. Tim flew after her, taking no notice at all of George's stern shout.
17
The cat tried to leap on top of an old grandfather clock in the hall. With a joyous bark Tim sprangtoo. He flung himself against a polished panel - and then a most extraordinary thing happened!
The panel disappeared - and a dark hole showed in the old wall! George, who had followed Tim outinto the hall, gave a loud cry of surprise. 'Look! Mrs. Sanders, come and look!'
3.
















































40











12


























Chapter Four AN EXCITING DISCOVERY
Chapter Four AN EXCITING DISCOVERY
OLD Mrs. Sanders and the other three children rushed out into the hall when they heard George'sshout.
'What's up?' cried Julian. 'What's happened?'
'Tim sprang at the cat, missed her, and fell hard against the panelled wall,' said George, 'And thepanel moved, and look - there's a "hole in the wall!'
'It's a secret panel!' cried Dick, in excitement, peering into the hole. 'Golly! Did you know there wasone here, Mrs. Sanders?'
'Oh yes,' said the old lady. 'This house is full of funny things like that. I'm very careful when \ polishthat panel, because if I rub too hard in the top corner, it always slides back.'
'What's behind the panel?' asked Julian. The hole was only about the width of his head, and when hestuck his head inside, he could see only darkness. The wall itself was about eight inches behind thepanelling, and was of stone.
'Get a candle, do, get a candle!' said Anne, thrilled. 'You haven't got a torch, have you, Mrs.
Sanders?'
'No,' said the old woman. 'But you can get a candle if you like. There's one on the kitchenmantelpiece.'
Anne shot off to get it. Julian lighted it and put it into the hole behind the panel. The others pushedagainst him to try and peep inside.
'Don't,' said Julian, impatiently. 'Wait your turn, sillies! Let me have a look.'
18
He had a good look, but there didn't really seem anything to see. It was all darkness behind, and stonewall. He gave the candle to Dick, and then each of the children had a turn at peeping. Old Mrs.
Sanders had gone back to the kitchen. She was used to the sliding panel!
'She said this house was full of queer things like that,' said Anne. 'What other things are there, do youthink ? Let's ask her.'
They slid the panel back into place and went to find Mrs. Sanders. 'Mrs. Sanders, what other funnythings are there in Kirrin Farm-house?' asked Julian.
'There's a cupboard upstairs with a false back,' said Mrs. Sanders. 'Don't look so excited! There'snothing in it at all! And there's a big stone over there by the fireplace that pulls up to show a hidey-hole. I suppose in the old days people wanted good hiding-places for things.'
The children ran to the stone she pointed out. It had an iron ring in it, and was easily pulled up.
Below was a hollowed-out place, big enough to take a small box. It was empty now, but all the sameit looked exciting.
'Where's the cupboard?' asked Julian.
'My old legs are too tired to go traipsing upstairs this morning,' said the farmer's wife. 'But you cango your selves. Up the stairs, turn to the right, and go into the second door you see. The cupboard isat the farther end. Open the door and feel about at the bottom till you come across a dent in the wood.
Press it hard, and the false back slides to the side.'
The four children and Timothy ran upstairs as fast as they could, munching shortbread as they went.
This really was a very exciting morning!
They found the cupboard, and opened the door. All four went down on hands arid knees to pressround the bottom of the cupboard to find the dented place. Anne found it.
'I've got it!' she cried. She pressed hard, but her little fingers were not strong enough to work themechanism of the sliding back. Julian had to help her.
There was a creaking noise, and the children saw the false back of the cupboard sliding sideways. Abig space showed behind, large enough to take a fairly thin man.
'A jolly good hiding-place,' said Julian. 'Anyone could hide there and no one would ever know!'
Ill get in and you shut me up,' said Dick. 'It would be exciting.'
He got into the space. Julian slid the back across, and Dick could no longer be seen!
'Bit of a tight fit!' he called. 'And awfully dark! Let me out again.'
19
The children all took turns at going into the space behind the back of the cupboard and being shut up.
Anne didn't like it very much.
They went down to the warm kitchen again. 'It's a most exciting cupboard, Mrs. Sanders,' said Julian.
'I do wish we lived in a house like this, full of secrets!'
'Can we come and play in that cupboard again?' asked George.
'No, I'm afraid you can't, Master George,' said Mrs. Sanders. 'That room where the cupboard is, is onethe two gentlemen are going to have.
'Oh!' said Julian, disappointed. 'Shall you tell them about the sliding back, Mrs. Sanders?
'I don't expect so,' said the old lady. 'It's only you children that get excited about things like that, blessyou. Two gentlemen wouldn't think twice about it.'
'How funny grown-ups are!' said Anne, puzzled. 'I'm quite certain I shall be thrilled to see a slidingpanel or a trap-door even when I'm a hundred.'
'Same here,' said Dick. 'Could I just go and look into the sliding panel in the hall once more, Mrs.
Sanders? I'll take the candle.'
Dick never knew why he suddenly wanted to have another look. It was just an idea he had. Theothers didn't bother to go with him, for there really was nothing to see behind the panelling except theold stone wall.
Dick took the candle and went into the hall. He pressed on the panel at the top and it slid back.
He put the candle inside and had another good look. There was nothing at all to be seen. Dick tookout his head and put in his arm, stretching along the wall as far as his hand would reach. He was justabout to take it back when his fingers found a hole in the wall.
'Funny!' said Dick. 'Why should there be a hole in the stone wall just there?'
He stuck in his finger and thumb and worked them about. He felt a little ridge inside the wall, ratherlike a bird's perch, and was able to get hold of it. He wriggled his fingers about the perch, but nothinghappened. Then he got a good hold and pulled.
The stone came right out! Dick was so surprised that he let go the heavy stone and it fell to theground behind the panelling with a crash!
The noise brought the others out into the hall. 'Whatever are you doing, Dick?' said Julian, 'Have youbroken something?'
'No,' said Dick, his face reddening with excitement. 'I say - I put my hand in here - and found a holein one of the stones the wall is made of - and I got hold of a sort of ridge with my finger and 20thumb and pulled. The stone came right out, and I got such a surprise I let go. It fell, and that's whatyou heard!'
'Golly!' said Julian, trying to push Dick away from the open panel. 'Let me see.'
'No, Julian,' said Dick, pushing him away. 'This is my discovery. Wait till I see if I can feel anythingin the hole. It's difficult to get at!'
The others waited impatiently. Julian could hardly prevent himself from pushing Dick right away.
Dick put his arm in as far as he could, and curved his hand round to get into the space behind wherethe stone had been. His fingers felt about and he closed them round something that felt like a book.
Cautiously and carefully he brought it out.
'An old book!' he said.
'What's in it ?' cried Anne.
They turned the pages carefully. They were so dry and brittle that some of them fell into dust.
'I think it's a book of recipes,' said Anne, as her sharp eyes read a few words in the old brown, fadedhandwriting. 'Let's take it to Mrs. Sanders.'
The children carried the book to the old lady. She laughed at their beaming faces. She took the bookand looked at it, not at all excited.
'Yes,' she said. 'It's a book of recipes, that's all it is. See the name in the front - Alice Mary Sanders -that must have been my great-grandmother. She was famous for her medicines, I know.
It was said she could cure any ill man or animal, no matter what it was.'
'It's a pity it's so hard to read her writing,' said Julian, disappointed. 'The whole book is falling topieces too. It must be very old.'
'Do you think there's anything else in that hidey-hole?' asked Anne. 'Julian, you go and put your armin, it's longer than Dick's.'
'There didn't seem to be anything else at all,' said Dick. 'It's a very small place - just a few inches ofhollow space behind that brick or stone that fell down.'
'Well, I'll just put my hand in and see,' said Julian. They all went back into the hall. Julian put his arminto the open panel, and slid it along the wall to where, the stone had fallen out. His hand went intothe space there, and his long fingers groped about, feeling for anything else that might be there.
There was something else, something soft and flat that felt like leather. Eagerly the boy's fingersclosed over it and he drew it out carefully, half afraid that it might fall to pieces with age.
21
'I've got something!' he said, his eyes gleaming brightly. 'Look - what is it?'
The others crowded round. 'It's rather like Daddy's tobacco pouch,' said Anne, feeling it. The sameshape. Is there anything inside?'
It was a tobacco pouch, very dark brown, made of soft leather and very much worn. Carefully Julianundid the flap, and unrolled the leather.
A few bits of black tobacco were still in the pouch -but there was something else, too! Tightly rolledup in the last bit of pouch was a piece of linen. Julian took it out and unrolled it. He put it flat on thehall-table.
The children stared at it. There were marks and signs on the linen, done in black ink that had hardlyfaded. But the four of them could not make head or tail of the marks.
'It's not a map,' said Julian. 'It seems a sort of code, or something. I do wonder what it means. I wishwe could make it out. It must be some sort of secret.'
The children stared at the piece of linen, very thrilled. It was so old - and contained some kind ofsecret. Whatever could it be?
They ran to show it to Mrs. Sanders. She was studying the old recipe book, and her face glowed withpleasure as she raised it to look at the excited children.
'This book's a wonder!' she said. 'I can hardly read the writing, but here's a recipe for backache. Ishall try it myself. My back aches so much at the end of the day. Now, you listen ...'
But the children didn't want to listen to recipes for backache. They pushed the piece of linen on toMrs. Sanders' lap.
'Look! What's this about, Mrs. Sanders? Do you know ? We found it in a kind of tobacco pouch inthat place behind the panel.'
Mrs. Sanders took off her glasses, polished them, and put them on again. She looked carefully at thepiece of linen with its strange marks.
She shook her head. 'No - this doesn't make any sense to me. And what's this now - it looks like anold tobacco pouch. Ah, my John would like that, I guess. He's got such an old one that it won't holdhis tobacco any more! This is old too - but there's a lot of wear in it yet.'
'Mrs. Sanders, do you want this piece of linen too?' asked Julian, anxiously. He was longing to take ithome and study it. He felt certain there was some kind of exciting secret hidden there, and he couldnot bear the thought of leaving it with Mrs. Sanders.
22
'You take it, Master Julian, if you want it,' said Mrs. Sanders, with a laugh. Ill keep the recipes formyself, and John shall have the pouch. You can have the old rag if you want it, though it beats mewhy you set such store by it! Ah, here's John!'
She raised her voice and shouted to the deaf old man. 'Hey, John, here's a tobacco pouch' for you.
The children found it somewhere behind that panel that opens in the hall.'
John took it and fingered it. 'It's a queer one,' he said. 'But better than mine. Well, youngsters, I don'twant to hurry you, but it's one o'clock now, and you'd best be going if it's near your dinner-time!'
'Gracious!' said Julian. 'We shall be late! Good- bye, Mrs. Sanders, and thanks awfully for theshortbread and this old rag. We'll try our best to make out what's on it and tell you. Hurry, everyone!
Where's Tim? Come on, Timothy, we're late!'
The five of them ran off quickly. They really were late, and had to run most of the way, which meantthat it was difficult to talk. But they were so excited about their morning that they panted remarks toone another as they went.
'I wonder what this old rag says!' panted Julian. 'I mean to find out. I'm sure it's somethingmysterious.'
'Shall we tell anyone?' asked Dick.
'No!' said George. 'Let's keep it a secret.'
'If Anne starts to give away anything, kick her under the table, like we did last summer,' said Julian,with a grin. Poor Anne always found it difficult to keep a secret, and often had to be nudged or kickedwhen she began to give things away.
'I won't say a word,' said Anne, indignantly. 'And don't you dare to kick me. It only makes me cry outand then the grown-ups want to know why.'
'We'll have a good old puzzle over this piece of linen after dinner,' said Julian. 'I bet we'll find outwhat it says, if we really make up our minds to!'
'Here we are,' said George. 'Not too late. Hallo, Mother! We won't be a minute washing our hands!
We've had a lovely time.'
4.































100











































Chapter Five AN UNPLEASANT WALK
Chapter Five AN UNPLEASANT WALK
AFTER dinner the four children went upstairs to the boys' bedroom and spread out the bit of linen ona table there. There were words here and there, scrawled in rough printing. There was the sign of acompass, with E marked clearly for East. There were eight rough squares, and in one of them, right inthe middle, was a cross. It was all very mysterious.
'You know, I believe these words are Latin,' said Julian, trying to make them out. 'But I can't readthem properly. And I expect if I could read them, I wouldn't know what they meant. I wish we knewsomeone who could read Latin like this.'
'Could your father, George?' asked Anne.
'I expect so,' said George. But nobody wanted to ask George's father. He might take the curious oldrag away. He might forget all about it, he might even burn it. Scientists were such queer people.
'What about Mr. Roland?' said Dick. 'He's a tutor. He knows Latin.'
'We won't ask him till we know a bit more about him,' said Julian, cautiously. 'He seems quite jollyand nice -but you never know. Oh, blow - I wish we could make this out, I really do.'
'There are two words at the top,' said Dick, and he tried to spell them out. 'VIA OCCULTA.'
'What do you think they could mean, Julian?'
'Well - the only thing I can think of that they can mean is - Secret Way, or something like that,'
said Julian, screwing up his forehead into a frown.
'Secret Way!' said Anne, her eyes shining. 'Oh, I hope it's that! Secret Way! How exciting. What sortof secret way would it be, Julian?'
'How do I know, Anne, silly?' said Julian. 'I don't even know that the words are meant to mean"Secret Way". It's really a guess on my part.'
'If they did mean that - the linen might have directions to find the Secret Way, whatever it is,'
said Dick. 'Oh Julian, isn't it exasperating that we can't read it? Do, do try. You know more Latin thanI do.'
'It's so hard to read the funny old letters,' said Julian, trying again. 'No - it's no good at all. I can'tmake them out.'
Steps came up the stairs, and the door opened. Mr. Roland looked in.
24
'Hallo, hallo!' he said. 'I wondered where you all were. What about a walk over the cliffs?'
'We'll come,' said Julian, rolling up the old rag.
'What have you got there? Anything interesting?' asked Mr. Roland.
'It's a -' began Anne, and at once all the others began to talk, afraid that Anne was going to give thesecret away.
'It's a wonderful afternoon for a walk.'
'Come on, let's get our things on!'
'Tim, Tim, where are you?' George gave a piercing whistle. Tim was under the bed and camebounding out. Anne went red as she guessed why all the others had interrupted her so quickly.
'Idiot,' said Julian, under his breath. 'Baby.'
Fortunately Mr. Roland said no more about the piece of linen he had seen Julian rolling up. He waslooking at Tim.
'I suppose he must come,' he said. George stared at him in indignation.
'Of course he must!' she said. 'We never never go anywhere without Timothy.'
Mr. Roland went downstairs, and the children got ready to go out. George was scowling. The veryidea of leaving Tim behind made her angry.
'You nearly gave our secret away, you silly,' said Dick to Anne.
'I didn't think,' said the little girl, looking ashamed of herself. 'Anyway, Mr. Roland seems very nice.
I think we might ask him if he could help us to understand those funny words.'
'You leave that to me to decide,' said Julian, crossly. 'Now don't you dare to say a word.'
They all set out, Timothy too. Mr. Roland need not have worried about the dog, for Timothy wouldnot go near him. It was very queer, really. He kept away from the tutor, and took not the slightestnotice of him even when Mr. Roland spoke to him.
'He's not usually like that,' said Dick. 'He's a most friendly dog, really.'
'Well, as I've got to live in the same house with him, I must try and make him friends with me,'
said the tutor. 'Hi, Timothy! Come here! I've got a biscuit in my pocket.'
Timothy pricked up his ears at the word 'biscuit' but did not even look towards Mr. Roland. He puthis tail down and went to George. She patted him.
'If he doesn't like anyone, not even a biscuit or a bone will make him go to them when he is called,'
she said.
25
Mr. Roland gave it up. He put the biscuit back into his pocket. 'He's a queer-looking dog, isn't he?' hesaid. 'A terrible mongrel! I must say I prefer well-bred dogs.'
George went purple in the face. 'He's not queer-looking!' she spluttered. 'He's not nearly so queer-looking as you! He's not a terrible mongrel. He's the best dog in the world!'
'I think you are being a little rude,' said Mr. Roland, stiffly. I don't allow my pupils to be cheeky,Georgina.'
Calling her Georgina made George still more furious. She lagged behind with Tim, looking as blackas a thundercloud. The others felt uncomfortable. They knew what tempers George got into, and howdifficult she could be. She had been so much better and happier since the summer, when they hadcome to stay for the first time. They did hope she wasn't going to be silly and get into rows. It wouldspoil the Christmas holidays.
Mr. Roland took no more notice of George. He did not speak to her, but strode on ahead with theothers, doing his best to be jolly. He could really be very funny, and the boys began to laugh at him.
He took Anne's hand, and the little girl jumped along beside him, enjoying the walk.
Julian felt sorry for George. It wasn't nice to be left out of things, and he knew how George hatedanything like that. He wondered if he dared to put in a good word for her. It might make thingseasier.
'Mr. Roland, sir,' he began. 'Could you call my cousin by the name she likes - George - she simplyhates Georgina. And she's very fond of Tim. She can't bear anyone to say horrid things about him.'
Mr. Roland looked surprised. 'My dear boy, I am sure you mean well,' he said, in rather a dry sort ofvoice, 'but I hardly think I want your advice about any of my pupils. I shall follow my own wishes inmy treatment of Georgina, not yours. I want to be friends with you all, and I am sure we shall be - butGeorgina has got to be sensible, as you three are.'
Julian felt rather squashed. He went red and looked at Dick. Dick gave him a squeeze on his arm.
The boys knew George could be silly and difficult, especially if anyone didn't like her beloved dog -but they thought Mr. Roland might try to be a bit more understanding too. Dick slipped behind andwalked with George.
'You needn't walk with me,' said George at once, her blue eyes glinting. 'Walk with your friend Mr.
Roland.'
'He isn't my friend,' said Dick. 'Don't be silly.'
26
'I'm not silly,' said George, in a tight sort of voice. 'I heard you all laughing and joking with him.
You go on and have a good laugh again. I've got Timothy.'
'George, it's Christmas holidays,' said Dick. 'Do let's all be friends. Do. Don't let's spoil Christmas.'
I can't like anyone who doesn't like Tim,' said George, obstinately.
'Well, after all, Mr. Roland did offer him a biscuit,' said Dick, trying to make peace as hard as hecould.
George said nothing. Her small face looked fierce. Dick tried again.
'George! Promise to try and be nice till Christmas is over, anyway. Don't let's spoil Christmas, forgoodness' sake! Come on, George.'
'All right,' said George, at last. Ill try.'
'Come and walk with us, then,' said Dick. So George caught up the others, and tried not to look toosulky. Mr. Roland guessed that Dick had been trying to make George behave, and he included her inhis talk. He could not make her laugh, but she did at least answer politely.
'Is that Kirrin Farm-house?' asked Mr. Roland, as they came in sight of the farm.
'Yes. Do you know it?' asked Julian, in surprise.
'No, no,' said Mr. Roland, at once. 'I heard of it, and wondered if that was the place.'
'We went there this morning,' said Anne. 'It's an exciting place.' She looked at the others, wonderingif they would mind if she said anything about the things they had seen that morning.
Julian thought for a moment. After all, it couldn't matter telling him about the stone in the kitchenand the false back to the cupboard. Mrs. Sanders would tell anyone that. He could speak about thesliding panel in the hall too, and say they had found an old recipe book there. He did not need to sayanything about the old bit of marked linen.
So he told their tutor about the exciting things they had seen at the old farm-house, but said nothing atall about the linen and its strange markings. Mr. Roland listened with the greatest interest.
'This is all very remarkable,' he said. 'Very remarkable indeed. Most interesting. You say the oldcouple live there quite alone?'
'Well, they are having two people to stay over Christmas,' said Dick, 'Artists. Julian thought he wouldgo over and talk to them. He can paint awfully well, you know.'
27
'Can he really?' said Mr. Roland. 'Well, he must show me some of, his pictures. But I don't think he'dbetter go and worry the artists at the farm-house. They might not like it.'
This remark made Julian feel obstinate. He made up his mind at once that he would go and talk to thetwo artists when he got the chance! ,
It was quite a pleasant walk on the whole except that George was quiet, and Timothy would not goanywhere near Mr. Roland. When they came to a frozen pond Dick threw sticks on it for Tim tofetch. It was so funny to see him go slithering about on his long legs, trying to run properly!
Everyone threw sticks for the dog, and Tim fetched all the sticks except Mr. Roland's. When the tutorthrew a stick the dog looked at it and took no more notice. It was almost as if he had said,'What, your stick! No thank you!'
'Now, home we go,' said Mr. Roland, trying not to look annoyed with Tim. 'We shall just be in timefor tea!'
5.

E





VIA OCCULTA




















































Chapter Six LESSONS WITH MR. ROLAND
Chapter Six LESSONS WITH MR. ROLAND
NEXT morning the children felt a little gloomy. Lessons! How horrid in the holidays! Still, Mr.
Roland wasn't so bad. The children had not had him with them in the sitting-room the night before,because he had gone to talk to their uncle. So they were able to get out the mysterious bit of linenagain and pore over it.
But it wasn't a bit of good. Nobody could make anything of it at all. Secret Way! What did it mean?
Was it really directions for a Secret Way? And where was the way, and why was it secret? It wasmost exasperating not to be able to find out.
'I really feel we'll have to ask someone soon,' Julian had said with a sigh. 'I can't bear this mysterymuch longer. I keep on and on thinking of it.'
He had dreamt of it too that night, and now it was morning, with lessons ahead. He wondered whatlesson Mr. Roland would take - Latin perhaps. Then he could ask him what the words 'VIAOCCULTA' meant.
28
Mr. Roland had seen all their reports and had noted the subjects they were weak in. One was Latin,and another was French. Maths were very weak in both Dick's report and George's. Both childrenmust be helped on in those. Geometry was Julian's weakest spot.
Anne was not supposed to need any coaching. 'But if you like to come along and join us, I'll give yousome painting to do,' said Mr. Roland, his blue eyes twinkling at her. He liked Anne. She was notdifficult and sulky like George.
Anne loved painting. 'Oh, yes,' she said, happily, Id love to do some painting. I can paint flowers,Mr. Roland. I'll paint you some red poppies and blue cornflowers out of my head.'
'We will start at half-past nine,' said Mr. Roland. 'We are to work in the sitting-room. Take yourschool-books there, and be ready punctually.'
So all the children were there, sitting round a table, their books in front of them, at half-past nine.
Anne had some painting water and her painting-box. The others looked at her enviously. LuckyAnne, to be doing painting whilst they worked hard at difficult things like Latin and maths!
'Where's Timothy?' asked Julian in a low voice, as they waited for their tutor to come in.
'Under the table, said George, defiantly. Im sure he'll lie still. Don't any of you say anything abouthim. I want him there. I'm not going to do lessons without Tim here.'
'I don't see why he shouldn't be here with us,' said Dick. 'He's very very good. Sh! Here comes Mr.
Roland.'
The tutor came in, his black beard bristling round his mouth and chin. His eyes looked very piercingin the pale winter sunlight that filtered into the room. He told the children to sit down.
'I'll have a look at your exercise books first,' he said, 'and see what you were doing last term. Youcome first, Julian.'
Soon the little class were working quietly together. Anne was very busy painting a bright picture ofpoppies and cornflowers. Mr. Roland admired it very much. Anne thought he really was very nice.
Suddenly there was a huge sigh from under the table. It was Tim, tired of lying so still Mr.
Roland looked up, surprised. George at once sighed heavily, hoping that Mr. Roland would think itwas she who had sighed before.
'You sound tired, Georgina,' said Mr. Roland. 'You shall all have a little break at eleven.'
George frowned. She hated being called Georgina. She put her foot cautiously on Timothy to warnhim not to make any more noises. Tim licked her foot.
29
After a while, just when the class was at its very quietest, Tim felt a great wish to scratch himselfvery hard on his back. He got up. He sat down again with a thump, gave a grunt, and began to scratchhimself furiously. The children all began to make noises to hide the sounds that Tim was making.
George clattered her feet on the floor. Julian began to cough, and let one of his book slip to theground. Dick jiggled the table and spoke to Mr. Roland.
'Oh dear, this sum is so hard; it really is! I keep doing it and doing it, and it simply won't come right!'
'Why all this sudden noise?' said Mr. Roland in surprise. 'Stop tapping the floor with your feet,Georgina.
Tim settled down quietly again. The children gave a sigh of relief. They became quiet, and Mr.
Roland told Dick to come to him with his maths book.
The tutor took it, and stretched his legs out under the table, leaning back to speak to Dick. To hisenormous surprise his feet struck something soft and warm - and then something nipped him sharplyon the ankle! He drew in his feet with a cry of pain.
The children stared at him. He bent down and looked under the table. 'It's that dog,' he said, indisgust. 'The brute snapped at my ankles. He has made a hole in my trousers. Take him out,Georgina.'
Georgina said nothing. She sat as though she had not heard.
'She won't answer if you call her Georgina,' Julian reminded him.
'She'll answer me whatever I call her,' said Mr. Roland, in a low and angry voice. 'I won't have thatdog in here. If you don't take him out this very minute, Georgina, I will go to your father.'
George looked at him. She knew perfectly well that if she didn't take Tim out, and Mr. Roland wentto her father, he would order Timothy to live in the garden kennel, and that would be dreadful. Therewas absolutely nothing to be done but obey. Red in the face, a huge frown almost hiding her eyes,she got up and spoke to Tim.
'Come on, Tim! I'm not surprised you bit him. I would, too, if I were a dog!'
'There is no need to be rude, Georgina,' said Mr. Roland, angrily.
The others stared at George. They wondered how she dared to say things like that. When she gotfierce it seemed as if she didn't care for anyone at all!
'Come back as soon as you have put the dog out,' said Mr. Roland.
30
George scowled, but came back in a few minutes. She felt caught. Her father was friendly with Mr.
Roland, and knew how difficult George was - if she behaved as badly as she felt she would like to, itwould be Tim who would suffer, for he would certainly be banished from the house. So for Tim'ssake George obeyed the tutor - but from that moment she disliked him and resented him bitterly withall her fierce little heart.
The others were sorry for George and Timothy, but they did not share the little girl's intense dislike ofthe new tutor. He often made them laugh. He was patient with their mistakes. He was willing to showthem how to make paper darts and ships, and to do funny little tricks. Julian and Dick thought thesewere fun, and stored them up to try on the other boys when they went back to school.
After lessons that morning the children went out for half an hour in the frosty sunshine. George calledTim.
'Poor old boy!' she said. 'What a shame to turn you out of the room! Whatever did you snap at Mr.
Roland for? I think it was a very good idea, Tim - but I really don't know what made you!'
'George, you can't play about with Mr. Roland,' said Julian. 'You'll only get into trouble. He's tough.
He won't stand much from any of us. But I think he'll be quite a good sport if we get on the right sideof him.'
'Well, get on the right side of him if you like,' said George, in rather a sneering voice. Im not goingto. If I don't like a person, I don't - and I don't like him.'
'Why? Just because he doesn't like Tim?' asked Dick.
'Mostly because of that - but because he makes me feel prickly down my back,' said George, 'I don'tlike his nasty mouth.'
'But you can't see it,' said Julian. 'It's covered with his moustache and beard.'
'I've seen his lips through them,' said George, obstinately. 'They're thin and cruel. You look and see. Idon't like thin-lipped people. They are always spiteful and hard. And I don't like his cold eyes either.
You can suck up to him all you like. I shan't.'
Julian refused to get angry with the stubborn little girl. He laughed at her. 'We're not going to suck upto him,' he said. 'We're just going to be sensible, that's all. You be sensible too, George, old thing.'
But once George had made up her mind about something nothing would alter her. She cheered upwhen she heard that they were all to go Christmas shopping on the bus that afternoon -31
without Mr. Roland! He was going to watch an experiment that her father was going to show him.
'I will take you into the nearest town and you shall shop to your heart's content,' said Aunt Fanny tothe children. 'Then we will have tea in a tea-shop and catch the six o'clock bus home.'
This was fun. They caught the afternoon bus and rumbled along the deep country lanes till they got tothe town. The shops looked very gay and bright. The children had brought their money with them,and were very busy indeed, buying all kinds of things. There were so many people to get presentsfor!
'I suppose we'd better get something for Mr. Roland, hadn't we?' said Julian.
'I'm going to,' said Anne. Im going to buy him a packet of cigarettes. I know the kind he smokes.'
'Fancy buying Mr. Roland a present!' said George, in her scornful voice.
'Why shouldn't she, George?' asked her mother, in surprise. 'Oh dear, I hope you are going to besensible about him, and not take a violent dislike to the poor man. I don't want him to complain toyour father about you.'
'What are you going to buy for Tim, George?' asked Julian, changing the subject quickly.
'The largest bone the butcher has got,' said George. 'What are you going to buy him?'
'I guess if Tim had money, he would buy us each a present,' said Anne, taking hold of the thick hairround Tim's neck, and pulling it lovingly. 'He's the best dog in the world!'
George forgave Anne for saying she would buy Mr. Roland a present, when the little girl said thatabout Tim! She cheered up again and began to plan what she would buy for everyone.
They had a fine tea, and caught the six o'clock bus back. Aunt Fanny went to see if the cook hadgiven the two men their tea. She came out of the study beaming.
'Really, I've never seen your uncle so jolly,' she said to Julian and Dick. 'He and Mr. Roland aregetting on like a house on fire. He has been showing your tutor quite a lot of his experiments. It's nicefor him to have someone to talk to that knows a little about these things.'
Mr. Roland played games with the children that evening. Tim was in the room, and the tutor triedagain to make friends with him, but the dog refused to take any notice of him.
'As sulky as his little mistress!' said the tutor, with a laughing look at George, who was watching Timrefuse to go to Mr. Roland, and looking rather pleased about it. She gave the tutor a scowl and saidnothing.
32
'Shall we ask him whether "VIA OCCULT" really does mean "Secret Way" or not, tomorrow?'
said Julian to Dick, as they undressed that night. 'I'm just longing to know if it does. What do youthink of Mr. Roland, Dick?'
'I don't really quite know,' said Dick. 'I like lots of things about him, but then I suddenly don't likehim at all. I don't like his eyes. And George is quite right about his lips. They are so thin there'shardly anything of them at all.'
'I think he's all right,' said Julian. 'He won't stand any nonsense, that's all. I wouldn't mind showinghim the whole piece of rag and asking him to make out its meaning for us.'
'I thought you said it was to be a proper secret,' said Dick.
'I know - but what's the use of a secret we don't know the meaning of ourselves?' said Julian. Ill tellyou what we could do - ask him to explain the words to us, and not show him the bit of linen.
'But we can't read some of the words ourselves,' said Dick. 'So that's no use. You'd have to show himthe whole thing, and tell him where we got it.'
'Well, I'll see,' said Julian, getting into bed.
The next day there were lessons again from half-past nine to half-past twelve. George appearedwithout Tim.
She was angry at having to do this, but it was no good being defiant and refusing to come to lessonswithout Tim. Now that he had snapped at Mr. Roland, he had definitely put himself in the wrong, andthe tutor had every right to refuse to allow him to come. But George looked very sulky indeed.
In the Latin lesson Julian took the chance of asking what he wanted to know. 'Please, Mr.
Roland,' he said, 'could you tell me what "VIA OCCULTA" means?'
"VIA OCCULTA"?' said Mr. Roland, frowning. 'Yes - it means "Secret Path", or "Secret Road".
A hidden way - something like that. Why do you want to know?'
All the children were listening eagerly. Their hearts thumped with excitement. So Julian had beenright. That funny bit of rag contained directions for some hidden way, some secret path -but where to! Where did it begin, and end?
'Oh - I just wanted to know,' said Julian. 'Thank you, sir.'
He winked at the others. He was as excited as they were. If only, only they could make out the rest ofthe markings, they might be able to solve the mystery. Well - perhaps he would ask Mr.
Roland in a day or two. The secret must be solved somehow.
33
'The "Secret Way",' said Julian to himself, as he worked out a problem in geometry. 'The "SecretWay". I'll find it somehow.'
6.




VIA OCCULTA












11






































VIAOCCULTA







VIA OCGULTA
VIA OCCULTA



Chapter Seven DIRECTIONS FOR THE SECRET WAY
Chapter Seven DIRECTIONS FOR THE SECRET WAY
FOR the next day or two the four children did not really have much time to think about the SecretWay, because Christmas was coming near, and there was a good deal to do.
There were Christmas cards to draw and paint for their mothers and fathers and friends. There wasthe house to decorate. They went out with Mr. Roland to find sprays of holly, and came home laden.
'You look like a Christmas card yourselves,' said Aunt Fanny, as they walked up the garden path,carrying the red-berried holly over their shoulders. Mr. Roland had found a group of trees with tuftsof mistletoe growing from the top branches, and they had brought some of that too. Its berries shonelike pale green pearls.
'Mr. Roland had to climb the tree to get this,' said Anne. 'He's a good climber - as good as a monkey.'
Everyone laughed except George. She never laughed at anything to do with the tutor. They alldumped their loads down in the porch, and went to wash. They were to decorate the house thatevening.
'Is Uncle going to let his study be decorated too?' asked Anne. There were all kinds of strangeinstruments and glass tubes in the study now, and the children looked at them with wonder wheneverthey ventured into the study, which was very seldom.
'No, my study is certainly not to be messed about,' said Uncle Quentin, at once. 'I wouldn't hear of it.'
'Uncle, why do you have all these funny things in your study?' asked Anne, looking round with wideeyes.
Uncle Quentin laughed. Im looking for a secret formula!' he said.
'What's that?' said Anne.
34
'You wouldn't understand,' said her uncle. 'All these "funny things" as you call them, help me in myexperiments, and I put down in my book what they tell me - and from all I learn I work out a secretformula, that will be of great use when it is finished.'
'You want to know a secret formula, and we want to know a secret way,' said Anne, quite forgettingthat she was not supposed to talk about this.
Julian was standing by the door. He frowned at Anne. Luckily Uncle Quentin was not paying anymore attention to the little girl's chatter. Julian pulled her out of the room.
'Anne, the only way to stop you giving away secrets is to sew up your mouth, like Brer Rabbitwanted to do to Mister Dog!' he said.
Joanna the cook was busy baking Christmas cakes. An enormous turkey had been sent over fromKirrin Farm, and was hanging up in the larder. Timothy thought it smelt glorious, and Joanna wasalways shooing him out of the kitchen.
There were boxes of crackers on the shelf in the sitting-room, and mysterious parcels everywhere. Itwas very, very Christmassy! The children were happy and excited.
Mr. Roland went out and dug up a little spruce fir tree. 'We must have a Christmas tree, he said.
'Have you any tree-ornaments, children?'
'No,' said Julian, seeing George shake her head.
Ill go into the town this afternoon and get some for you,' promised the tutor. 'It will be fun dressingthe tree. We'll put it in the hall, and light candles on it on Christmas Day after tea.
Who's coming with me to get the candles and the ornaments?'
'I am!' cried three children. But the fourth said nothing. That was George. Not even to buy tree-ornaments would the obstinate little girl go with Mr. Roland. She had never had a Christmas treebefore, and she was very much looking forward to it - but it was spoilt for her because Mr.
Roland bought the things that made it so beautiful.
Now it stood in the hall, with coloured candles in holders clipped to the branches, and gay shiningornaments hanging from top to bottom. Silver strands of frosted string hung down from the brancheslike icicles, and Anne had put bits of white cotton-wool here and there to look like snow. It really wasa lovely sight to see.
'Beautiful!' said Uncle Quentin, as he passed through the hall, and saw Mr. Roland hanging the lastornaments on the tree. 'I say - look at the fairy doll on the top! Who's that for? A good girl?'
35
Anne secretly hoped that Mr. Roland would give her the doll. She was sure it wasn't for George -and anyway, George wouldn't accept it. It was such a pretty doll, with its gauzy frock and silverywings.
Julian, Dick and Anne had quite accepted the tutor now as teacher and friend. In fact, everyone had,their uncle and aunt too, and even Joanna the cook. George, of course, was the only exception, andshe and Timothy kept away from Mr. Roland, each looking as sulky as the other whenever the tutorwas in the room.
'You know, I never knew a dog could look so sulky!' said Julian, watching Timothy. 'Really, hescowls almost like George.'
'And I always feel as if George puts her tail down like Tim, when Mr. Roland is in the room,'
giggled Anne.
'Laugh all you like,' said George, in a low tone. 'I think you're beastly to me. I know I'm right aboutMr. Roland. I've got a feeling about him. And so has Tim.'
'You're silly, George,' said Dick. 'You haven't really got a Feeling - it's only that Mr. Roland willkeep calling you Georgina and putting you in your place, and that ' he doesn't like Tim. I dare say hecan't help disliking dogs. After all, there was once a famous man called Lord Roberts who couldn'tbear cats.'
'Oh well, cats are different,' said George. 'If a person doesn't like dogs, especially a dog like ourTimothy, then there really must be something wrong with him.'
'It's no use arguing with George,' said Julian, 'Once she's made up her mind about something, shewon't budge!'
George went out of the room in a huff. The others thought she was behaving rather stupidly.
'I'm surprised really,' said Anne. 'She was so jolly last term at school. Now she's gone all queer, ratherlike she was when we first knew her last summer.'
'I do think Mr. Roland has been decent digging up the Christmas tree and everything,' said Dick.
'I still don't like him awfully much sometimes, but I think he's a sport. What about asking him if hecan read that old linen rag for us - 1 don't think I'd mind him sharing our secret, really.'
'I would love him to share it,' said Anne, who was busy doing a marvellous Christmas card for thetutor. 'He's most awfully clever. I'm sure he could tell us what the Secret Way is. Do let's ask him.'
36
'All right,' said Julian. 'I'll show .him the piece of linen. It's Christmas Eve tonight. He will be with usin the sitting-room, because Aunt Fanny is going into the study with Uncle Quentin to wrap uppresents for all of us!'
So, that evening, before Mr. Roland came in to sit with them, Julian took out the little roll of linenand stroked it out flat on the table. George looked at it in surprise.
'Mr. Roland will be here in a minute,' she said. 'You'd better put it away quickly.'
'We're going to ask him if he can tell us what the old Latin words mean,' said Julian.
'You're not!' cried George, in dismay. 'Ask him to share our secret! However can you?'
'Well, we want to know what the secret is, don't we?' said Julian. 'We don't need to tell him where wegot this or anything about it except that we want to know what the markings mean.
We're not exactly sharing the secret with him - only asking him to use his brains to help us.'
'Well, I never thought you'd ask him,' said George. And he'll want to know simply everything aboutit, you just see if he won't! 'He's terribly snoopy.'
'Whatever do you mean?' said Julian, in surprise. 'I dont think he's a bit snoopy.'
'I saw him yesterday snooping round the study when no one was there,' said George. 'He didn't seeme outside the window with Tim. He was having a real poke round.
'You know how interested he is in your father's work,' said Julian. 'Why shouldn't he look at it?
Your father likes him too. You're just seeing what horrid things you can find to say about Mr.
Roland.'
'Oh shut up, you two, said Dick. 'It's Christmas Eve. Don't let's argue or quarrel or say beastlythings.' Just at that moment the tutor came into the room, 'All as busy as bees?' he said, his mouthsmiling beneath its moustache. 'Too busy to have a game of cards, I suppose?'
'Mr. Roland, sir,' began Julian, 'could you help us something? We've got an old bit of linen here withodd markings on it. The words seem to be in some sort of Latin and we can't make them out.'
George gave an angry exclamation as she saw Julian push the piece of linen over towards the tutor.
She went of the room and shut the door with a bang. Tim was with her.
'Our sweet- tempered Georgina doesn't seem to be very friendly tonight, remarked Mr. Roland,pulling the bit of linen towards him. 'Where in the world did you get this? What an odd thing!'
37
Nobody answered. Mr. Roland studied the roll of linen, and then gave an exclamation. 'Ah - I seewhy you wanted to know the meaning of those Latin words the other day - the ones that meant"hidden path", you remember. They are at the top of this linen roll.'
'Yes,' said Dick. All the children leaned over towards Mr. Roland, hoping he would be able tounravel a little of the mystery for them.
'We just want to know the meaning of the words, sir,' said Julian.
'This is really very interesting,' said the tutor, puzzling over the linen. 'Apparently there are directionshere for finding the opening or entrance of a secret path or road.'
'That's what we thought!' cried Julian, excitedly. 'That's exactly what we thought. Oh sir, do read thedirections and see what you make of them.'
'Well, these eight squares are meant to represent wooden boards or panels, I think,' said the tutor,pointing to the eight rough squares drawn on the linen. 'Wait a minute - I can hardly read some of thewords. This is most fascinating, Solum lapideum - paries ligneus - and what's this - cellula- yes, cellula!'
The children hung on his words. 'Wooden panels!' That must mean panels somewhere at KirrinFarmhouse.
Mr. Roland frowned down at the old printed words. Then he sent Anne to borrow a magnifying glassfrom her uncle. She came back with it, and the four of them looked through the glass, seeing thewords three times as clearly now.
'Well,' said the tutor at last, 'as far as I can make out the direction mean this: a room facing east; eightwooden panels, with an opening somewhere to be found in that marked one; a stone floor -yes, I think that's right, a stone floor; and a cupboard. It all sounds most extraordinary and verythrilling. Where did you get this from?'
'We just found it,' said Julian, after a pause. 'Oh Mr. Roland, thanks awfully. We could never havemade it out by ourselves. I suppose the entrance to the Secret Way is in a room facing east then.'
'It looks like it,' said Mr. Roland, poring over the linen roll again. 'Where did you say you found this?'
'We didn't say,' said Dick. 'It's a secret really, you see.'
'I think you might tell me,' said the tutor, looking at Dick with his brilliant blue eyes. 'I can be trustedwith secrets. You've no idea how many queer secrets I know.'
38
'Well,' said Julian, 'I don't really see why you shouldn't know where we found this, Mr. Roland.
We found it at Kirrin Farmhouse, in an old tobacco pouch. I suppose the Secret Way beginssomewhere there! I wonder where and wherever can it lead to?'
'You found it at Kirrin Farmhouse!' exclaimed Mr. Roland. 'Well, well - I must say that seems to bean interesting old place. I shall have to go over there one day.'
Julian rolled up the piece of linen and put it into his pocket. 'Well, thank you, sir,' he said.
'You've solved a bit of the mystery for us but set us another puzzle! We must look for the entrance ofthe Secret Way after Christmas, when we can walk over to Kirrin Farmhouse.
Ill come with you,' said Mr. Roland. 'I may be able to help a little. That is - if you don't mind mehaving a little share in this exciting secret.'
'Well - you've been such a help in telling us what the words mean,' said Julian; 'we'd like you to comeif you want to, sir.'
'Yes, we would,' said Anne.
'We'll go and look for the Secret Way, then,' said Mr. Roland. 'What fun we shall have, tapping roundthe panels, waiting for a mysterious dark entrance to appear!'
'I don't suppose George will go,' Dick murmured to Julian. 'You shouldn't have said Mr. Roland couldgo with us, Ju. That means that old George will have to be left out of it. You know how she hatesthat.'
'I know,' said Julian, feeling uncomfortable. 'Don't let's worry about that now though. George mayfeel different after Christmas. She can't keep up this kind of behaviour for ever!'
7.






















































Solum lapideumparies ligneuscellulacellula
















Chapter Eight WHAT HAPPENED ON CHRISTMAS NIGHT
Chapter Eight WHAT HAPPENED ON CHRISTMAS NIGHT
IT was great fun on Christmas morning. The children awoke early and tumbled out of bed to look atthe presents that were stacked on chairs near by. Squeals and yells of delight came from everyone.
'Oh! a railway station! Just what I wanted! Who gave me this marvellous station?'
'A new doll - with eyes that shut! I shall call her Betsy-May. She looks just like a Betsy-May!'
39
'I say - what a whopping great book - all about aeroplanes. From Aunt Fanny! How decent of her!'
'Timothy! Look what Julian has given you - a collar with big brass studs all round - you will begrand. Go and lick him to say thank you!'
'Who's this from? I say, who gave me this? Where's the label? Oh - from Mr. Roland. How decent ofhim! Look, Julian, a pocket-knife with three blades!'
So the cries and exclamations went on, and the four excited children and the equally-excited dogspent a glorious hour before a late Christmas breakfast, opening all kinds and shapes of parcels.
The bedrooms were in a fine mess when the children had finished!
'Who gave you that book about dogs, George?' asked Julian, seeing rather a nice dog-book lying onGeorge's pile.
'Mr. Roland,' said George, rather shortly. Julian wondered if George was going to accept it. He ratherthought she wouldn't. But the little girl, defiant and obstinate as she was, had made up her mind not tospoil Christmas Day by being 'difficult'. So, when the others thanked the tutor for their things she tooadded her thanks, though in rather a stiff little voice.
George had not given the tutor anything, but the others had, and Mr. Roland thanked them all veryheartily, appearing to be very pleased indeed. He told Anne that her Christmas card was the nicest hehad ever had, and she beamed at him with joy.
'Well, I must say it's nice to be here for Christmas!' said Mr. Roland, when he and the others weresitting round a loaded Christmas table, at the mid-day dinner. 'Shall I carve for you, Mr.
Quentin? I'm good at that!'
Uncle Quentin handed him the carving knife and fork gladly. 'It's nice to have you here,' he saidwarmly. 'I must say you've settled in well - I'm sure we all feel as if we've known you for ages!'
It really was a jolly Christmas Day. There were no lessons, of course, and there were to be none thenext day either. The children gave themselves up to the enjoyment of eating a great deal, suckingsweets, and looking forward to the lighting of the Christmas tree.
It looked beautiful when the candles were lighted. They twinkled in the darkness of the hall, and thebright ornaments shone and glowed. Tim sat and looked at it, quite entranced.
'He likes it as much as we do,' said George. And indeed Tim had enjoyed the whole day just as muchas any of the children.
40
They were all tired out when they went to bed. 'I shan't be long before I'm asleep,' yawned Anne.
'Oh, George - it's been fun, hasn't it? I did like the Christmas tree.'
'Yes, it's been lovely,' said George, jumping into bed. 'Here comes Mother to say good night.
Basket, Tim, basket!'
Tim leapt into his basket by the window. He was always there when George's mother came in to saygood night to the girls but as soon as she had gone downstairs, the dog took a flying leap and landedon George's bed. There he slept, his head curled round her feet.
'Don't you think Tim ought to sleep downstairs tonight?' said George's mother. 'Joanna says he atesuch an enormous meal in the kitchen that she is sure he will be sick.'
'Oh no, Mother!' said George, at once. 'Make Tim sleep downstairs on Christmas night?
Whatever would he think?'
'Oh, very well,' said her mother, with a laugh. 'I might have known it was useless to suggest it.
Now go to sleep quickly, Anne and George - it's late and you are all tired.'
She went into the boys' room and said good night to them too. They were almost asleep.
Two hours later everyone else was in bed. The house was still and dark. George and Anne sleptpeacefully in their small beds. Timothy slept too, lying heavily on George's feet.
Suddenly George awoke with a jump. Tim was growling softly! He had raised his big shaggy headand George knew that he was listening.
'What is it, Tim?' she whispered. Anne did not wake. Tim went on growling softly. George sat up andput her hand on his collar to stop him. She knew that if he awoke her father, he would be cross.
Timothy stopped growling now that he had roused George. The girl sat and wondered what to do. Itwasn't any good waking Anne. The little girl would be frightened. Why was Tim growling?
He never did that at night!
'Perhaps I'd better go and see if everything is all right,' thought George. She was quite fearless, andthe thought of creeping through the still, dark house did not disturb her at all. Besides she had Tim!
Who could be afraid with Tim beside them!
She slipped on her dressing-gown. 'Perhaps a log has fallen out of one of the fire-places and a rug isburning,' she thought, sniffing as she went down the stairs. It would be just like Tim to smell it andwarn us!'
41
With her hand on Tim's head to warn him to be quite quiet, George crept softly through the hall to thesitting-room. The fire was quite all right there, just a red glow. In the kitchen all was peace too. Tim'sfeet made a noise there, as his claws rattled against the linoleum.
A slight sound came from the other side of the house. Tim growled quite loudly, and the hairs on theback of his neck rose up. George stood still. Could it possibly be burglars?
Suddenly Timothy shook himself free from her fingers and leapt across the hall, down a passage, andinto the study beyond! There was the sound of an exclamation, and a noise as if someone was fallingover.
'It is a burglar!' said George, and she ran to the study. She saw a torch shining on the floor, droppedby someone who was even now struggling with Tim.
George switched on the light, and then looked with the greatest astonishment into the study. Mr.
Roland was there in his dressing-gown, rolling on the floor, trying to get away from Timothy, who,although not biting him, was holding him firmly by his dressing-gown.
'Oh - it's you, George! Call your beastly dog off!' said Mr. Roland, in a low and angry voice. 'Do youwant to rouse all the household?'
'Why are you creeping about with a torch?' demanded George.
'I heard a noise down here, and came to see what it was,' said Mr. Roland, sitting up and trying tofend off the angry dog. 'For goodness' sake, call your beast off.'
'Why didn't you put on the light?' asked George, not attempting to take Tim away. She was verymuch enjoying the sight of an angry and frightened Mr. Roland.
'I couldn't find it,' said the tutor. 'It's on the wrong side of the door, as you see.'
This was true. The switch was an awkward one to find if you didn't know it. Mr. Roland tried to pushTim away again, and the dog suddenly barked.
'Well - he'll wake everyone!' said the tutor, angrily. 'I didn't want to rouse the house. I thought I couldfind out for myself if there was anyone about - a burglar perhaps. Here comes your father!'
George's father appeared, carrying a large poker. He stood still in astonishment when he saw Mr.
Roland on the ground and Timothy standing over him.
'What's all this?' he exclaimed. Mr. Roland tried to get up, but Tim would not let him. George's fathercalled to him sternly.
'Tim! Come here, sir!'
42
Timothy glanced at George to see if his mistress agreed with her father's command. She said nothing.
So Timothy took no notice of the order and merely made a snap at Mr. Roland's ankles.
'That dog's mad!' said Mr. Roland, from the floor. 'He's already bitten me once before, and now he'strying to do it again!'
'Tim! Will you come here, sir!' shouted George's father. 'George, that dog is really disobedient.
Call him off at once.'
'Come here, Tim!' said George, in a low voice. The dog at once came to her, standing by her sidewith the hairs on his neck still rising up stiffly. He growled softly as if to say, 'Be careful, Mr.
Roland, be careful!'
The tutor got up. He was very angry indeed. He spoke to George's father.
'I heard some sort of a noise and came down with my torch to see what it was,' he said. 'I thought itcame from your study, and knowing you kept your valuable books and instruments here, I wonderedif some thief was about. I had just got down, and into the room, when that dog appeared fromsomewhere and got me down on the ground! George came along too, and would not call him off.'
'I can't understand your behaviour, George; I really can't,' said her father, angrily. 'I hope you are notgoing to behave stupidly, as you used to behave before your cousins came last summer. And what isthis I hear about Tim biting Mr. Roland before?'
'George had him under the table during lessons,' said Mr. Roland. 'I didn't know that, and when Istretched out my legs, they touched Tim, and he bit me. I didn't tell you before, sir, because I didn'twant to trouble you. Both George and the dog have tried to annoy me ever since I have been here.'
'Well, Tim must go outside and live in the kennel,' said George's father. 'I won't have him in thehouse. It will be a punishment for him, and a punishment for you too, George. I will not have thiskind of behaviour. Mr. Roland has been extremely kind to you all.'
'I won't let Tim live outside,' said George furiously. 'It's such cold weather, and it would simply breakhis heart.'
'Well, his heart must be broken then,' said her father. 'It will depend entirely on your behaviour fromnow on whether Tim is allowed in the house at all these holidays. I shall ask Mr. Roland each dayhow you have behaved. If you have a bad report, then Tim stays outside. Now you know! Go back tobed but first apologize to Mr. Roland!'
43
'I won't!' said George, and choked by feelings of anger and dismay, she tore out of the room and upthe stairs. The two men stared after her.
'Let her be,' said Mr. Roland. 'She's a very difficult child - and has made up her mind not to like me,that's quite plain. But I shall be very glad, sir, to know that that dog isn't in the house. I'm not at allcertain that Georgina wouldn't set him on me, if she could!'
'I'm sorry about all this,' said George's father. 'I wonder what the noise was that you heard - a logfalling in the grate I expect. Now - what am I to do about that tiresome dog tonight? Go and take himoutside, I suppose!'
'Leave him tonight,' said Mr. Roland. 'I can hear noises upstairs - the others are awake by now!
Don't let's make any more disturbance tonight.'
'Perhaps you are right,' said George's father, thankfully. He didn't at all want to tackle a defiant littlegirl and an angry big dog in the middle of a cold night!
The two men went to bed and slept. George did not sleep. The others had been awake when she gotupstairs, and she had told them what had happened.
'George! You really are an idiot!' said Dick. 'After all, why shouldn't Mr. Roland go down if he hearda noise! You went down! Now we shan't have darling old Tim in the house this cold weather!'
Anne began to cry. She didn't like hearing that the tutor she liked so much had been knocked downby Tim, and she hated hearing that Tim was to be punished.
'Don't be a baby,' said George. 'I'm not crying, and it's my dog!'
But, when everyone had settled down again in bed, and slept peacefully, George's pillow was verywet indeed. Tim crept up beside her and licked the salt tears off her cheek. He whined softly. Timwas always unhappy when his little mistress was sad.
8.































































Chapter Nine A HUNT FOR THE SECRET WAY
Chapter Nine A HUNT FOR THE SECRET WAY
THERE were no lessons the next day. George looked rather pale, and was very quiet. Tim wasalready out in the yard-kennel, and the children could hear him whining unhappily. They were allupset to hear him.
44
'Oh, George, I'm awfully sorry about it all,' said Dick. 'I wish you wouldn't get so fierce about things.
You only get yourself into trouble - and poor old Tim.'
George was full of mixed feelings. She disliked Mr. Roland so much now that she could hardly bearto look at him - and yet she did not dare to be openly rude and rebellious because she was afraid thatif she was, the tutor would give her a bad report, and perhaps she would not be allowed even to seeTimothy. It was very hard for a defiant nature like hers to force herself to behave properly.
Mr. Roland took no notice of her at all. The other children tried to bring George into their talks andplans, but she remained quiet and uninterested.
'George! We're going over to Kirrin Farmhouse today,' said Dick. 'Coming? We're going to try andfind the entrance to the Secret Way. It must start somewhere there.'
The children had told George what Mr. Roland had said about the piece of marked linen. They hadall been thrilled about this, though the excitements of Christmas Day had made them forget about itfor a while.
'Yes - of course I'll come,' said George, looking more cheerful. 'Timothy can come too. He wants awalk.'
But when the little girl found that Mr. Roland was also going, she changed her mind at once. Not foranything would she go with the tutor! No - she would go for a walk alone with Timothy.
'But, George - think of the excitement we'll have trying to find the Secret Way,' said Julian, takinghold of her arm. George wrenched it away.
Im not going if Mr. Roland is,' she said, obstinately, and the others knew that it was no good tryingto coax her.
'I shall go alone with Tim,' said George. 'You go off together with your dear Mr. Roland!'
She set out with Timothy, a lonely little figure going down the garden path. The others stared afterher. This was horrid. George was being more and more left out, but what could they do about it?
'Well, children, are you ready?' asked Mr. Roland. 'You start off by yourselves, will you? I'll meetyou at the farmhouse later. I want to run down to the village first to get something.'
So the three children set off by themselves, wishing that George was with them. She was nowhere tobe seen.
45
Old Mr. and Mrs. Sanders were pleased to see the three children, and sat them down in the bigkitchen to eat ginger buns and drink hot milk.
'Well, have you come to find a few more secret things?' asked Mrs. Sanders, with a smile.
'May we try?' asked Julian. 'We're looking for a room facing east, with a stone floor, and panelling!'
'All the rooms downstairs have stone floors,' said Mrs. Sanders. 'You hunt all you like, my dears.
You won't do any damage, I know. But don't go into the room upstairs with the cupboard that has afalse back, will you, or the one next to it! Those are the rooms the two artists have.'
'All right,' said Julian, rather sorry that they were unable to fiddle about with the exciting cupboardagain. 'Are the artists here, Mrs. Sanders? I'd like to talk to them about pictures. I hope one day I'll bean artist too.'
'Dear me, is that so?' said Mrs Sanders. 'Well, well - it's always a marvel to me how people make anymoney at painting pictures.'
'It isn't making money that artists like, so much as the painting of the pictures,' said Julian, lookingrather wise. That seemed to puzzle Mrs. Sanders even more. She shook her head and laughed.
'They're queer folk!' she said. 'Ah well - you go along and have a hunt for whatever it is you want tofind. You can't talk to the two artists today though, Master Julian - they're out.'
The children finished their buns and milk and then stood up, wondering where to begin their search.
They must look for a room or rooms facing east. That would be the first thing to do.
'Which side of the house faces east, Mrs. Sanders?' asked Julian. 'Do you know?'
'The kitchen faces due north,' said Mrs. Sanders. 'So east will be over there.' she pointed to the right.
'Thanks,' said Julian. 'Come on, everyone!' The three children went out of the kitchen, and turned tothe right. There were three rooms there - a kind of scullery, not much used now, a tiny room used as aden by old Mr. Sanders, and a room that had once been a drawing-room, but which was now cold andunused.
'They've all got stone floors,' said Julian.
'So we'll have to hunt through all of the three rooms,' said Anne.
'No, we won't,' said Julian. 'We shan't have to look in this scullery, for one thing!'
'Why not?' asked Anne.
46
'Because the walls are of stone, silly, and we want panelling,' said Julian. 'Use your brains, Anne!'
'Well, that's one room we needn't bother with, then,' said Dick. 'Look - both this little room and thedrawing-room have panelling, Julian. We must search in both.'
'There must be some reason for putting eight squares of panelling in the directions,' said Julian,looking at the roll of linen again. 'It would be a good idea to see whether there's a place with eightsquares only - you know, over a window, or something.'
It was tremendously exciting to look round the two rooms! The children began with the smallerroom. It was panelled all the way round in dark oak, but there was no place where only eight panelsshowed. So the children went into the next room.
The panelling there was different. It did not look so old, and was not so dark. The squares were rathera different size, too. The children tried each panel, tapping and pressing as they went, expecting atany moment to see one slide back as the one in the hall had done.
But they were disappointed. Nothing happened at all. They were still in the middle of trying whenthey heard footsteps in the hall, and voices. Somebody looked into the drawing-room. It was a man,thin and tall, wearing glasses on his long nose.
'Hallo!' he said. 'Mrs. Sanders told me you were treasure-hunting, or something. How are you gettingon?'
'Not very well,' said Julian, politely. He looked at the man, and saw behind him another one, younger,with rather screwed-up eyes and a big mouth. 'I suppose you are the two artists?' he asked.
'We are!' said the first man, coming into the room. 'Now, just exactly what are you looking for?'
Julian did not really want to tell him, but it was difficult not to. 'Well - we're just seeing if there's asliding panel here,' he said at last. 'There's one in the hall, you know. It's exciting to hunt round.'
'Shall we help?' said the first artist, coming into the room. 'What are your names? Mine's Thomas, andmy friend's name is Wilton.'
The children talked politely for a minute or two, not at all wanting the two men to help. If there wasanything to be found, they wanted to find it. It would spoil everything if grown-ups solved thepuzzle!
47
Soon everyone was tap-tap-tapping round the wooden panels. They were in the middle of this when avoice hailed them.
'Hallo! My word, we are all busy!'
The children turned, and saw their tutor standing in the doorway, smiling at them. The two artistslooked at him.
'Is this a friend of yours?' asked Mr. Thomas.
'Yes - he's our tutor, and he's very nice!' said Anne, running to Mr. Roland and putting her hand inhis.
'Perhaps you will introduce me, Anne,' said Mr. Roland, smiling at the little girl.
Anne knew how to introduce people. She had often seen her mother doing it. 'This is Mr.
Roland,' she said to the two artists. Then she turned to Mr. Roland. 'This is Mr. Thomas,' she said,waving her hand towards him, 'and the other one is Mr. Wilton.'
The men half-bowed to one another and nodded. 'Are you staying here?' asked Mr. Roland. 'A verynice old farm-house, isn't it?'
'It isn't time to go yet, is it?' asked Julian, hearing a clock strike.
'Yes, I'm afraid it is,' said Mr. Roland. Im later meeting you than I expected. We must go in aboutfive minutes - no later. I'll just give you a hand in trying to find this mysterious secret way!'
But no matter how anyone of them pressed and tapped around the panels in either of the two rooms,they could not find anything exciting. It really was most disappointing.
'Well, we really must go now,' said Mr. Roland. 'Come and say good-bye to Mrs. Sanders.'
They all went into the warm kitchen, where Mrs. Sanders was cooking something that smelt mostdelicious.
'Something for our lunch, Mrs. Sanders?' said Mr. Wilton. 'My word, you really are a wonderfulcook!'
Mrs. Sanders smiled. She turned to the children. 'Well, dearies, did you find what you wanted?'
she asked.
'No,' said Mr. Roland, answering for them. 'We haven't been able to find the secret way, after all!'
'The secret way?' said Mrs. Sanders, in surprise. 'What do you know about that now? I thought it hadall been forgotten - in fact, I haven't believed in that secret way for many a year!'
'Oh, Mrs, Sanders - do you know about it?' cried Julian. 'Where is it?'
48
'I don't know, dear - the secret of it has been lost for many a day,' said the old lady. 'I remember myold grandmother telling me something about it when I was smaller than any of you. But I wasn'tinterested in things like that when I was little. I was all for cows and hens and sheep.'
'Oh, Mrs. Sanders - do, do try and remember something!' begged Dick. 'What was the secret way?'
'Well, it was supposed to be a hidden way from Kirrin Farmhouse to somewhere else,' said Mrs.
Sanders. 'I don't know where, I'm sure. It was used in the olden days when people wanted to hidefrom enemies.'
It was disappointing that Mrs. Sanders knew so little. The children said good-bye and went off withtheir tutor, feeling that their morning had been wasted.
George was indoors when they got to Kirrin Cottage. Her cheeks were not so pale, now, and shegreeted the children eagerly.
'Did you discover anything? Tell me all about it!' she said.
'There's nothing to tell,' said Dick, rather gloomily. 'We found three rooms facing east, with stonefloors, but only two of them had wooden panelling, so we hunted round those, tapping and punching -but there wasn't anything to be discovered at all.'
'We saw the two artists,' said Anne. 'One was tall and thin, and had a long nose with glasses on.
He was called Mr. Thomas. The other was younger, with little piggy eyes and an enormous mouth.'
'I met them out this morning,' said George. 'It must have been them. Mr. Roland was with them, andthey were all talking together. They didn't see me.'
'Oh, it couldn't have been the artists you saw,' said Anne, at once. 'Mr. Roland didn't know them.
I had to introduce them.'
'Well, I'm sure I heard Mr. Roland call one of them Wilton,' said George, puzzled. 'He must haveknown them.'
'It couldn't have been the artists,' said Anne, again. 'They really didn't know Mr. Roland. Mr.
Thomas asked if he was a friend of ours.'
'I'm sure I'm not mistaken,' said George, looking obstinate. 'If Mr. Roland said he didn't know the twoartists, he was telling lies.'
'Oh, you're always making out that he is doing something horrid!' cried Anne, indignantly. 'You justmake up things about him!'
49
'Sh!' said Julian. 'Here he is.'
The door opened and the tutor came in. 'Well,' he said, 'it was disappointing that we couldn't find thesecret way, wasn't it! Anyway, we were rather foolish to hunt about that drawing-room as we did -the panelling there wasn't really old - it must have been put in years after the other.'
'Oh - well, it's no good looking there again,' said Julian, disappointed. 'And I'm pretty sure there'snothing to be found in that other little room. We went all over it so thoroughly. Isn't it disappointing?'
'It is,' said Mr. Roland. 'Well, Julian, how did you like the two artists? I was pleased to meet them -they seemed nice fellows, and I shall like to know them.'
George looked at the tutor. Could he possibly be telling untruths in such a truthful voice? The littlegirl was very puzzled. She felt sure it was the artists she had seen him with. But why should hepretend he didn't know them? She must be mistaken. But all the same, she felt uncomfortable aboutit, and made up her mind to find out the truth, if she could.
9.
























                
















































Chapter Ten A SHOCK FOR GEORGE AND TIM
Chapter Ten A SHOCK FOR GEORGE AND TIM
NEXT morning there were lessons again - and no Timothy, under the table! George felt very muchinclined to refuse to work, but what would be the good of that? Grown-ups were so powerful, andcould dole out all kinds of punishments. She didn't care how much she was punished herself but shecouldn't bear to think that Timothy might have to share in the punishments too.
So, pale and sullen, the little girl sat down at the table with the others. Anne was eager to join in thelessons - in fact she was eager to do anything to please Mr. Roland, because he had given her thefairy doll from the top of the Christmas tree! Anne thought she was the prettiest doll she had everseen.
George had scowled at the doll when Anne showed it to her. She didn't like dolls, and she certainlywasn't going to like one that Mr. Roland had chosen, and given to Anne! But Anne loved it, and hadmade up her mind to do lessons with the others, and work as well as she could.
50
George did as little as she could without getting into trouble. Mr. Roland took no interest in her or inher work. He praised the others, and took a lot of trouble to show Julian something he found difficult.
The children heard Tim whining outside as they worked. This troubled them very much, for Timothywas such a companion, and so dear to them all. They could not bear to think of him left out ofeverything, cold and miserable in the yard-kennel. When the ten minutes' break came, and Mr.
Roland went out of the room for a few minutes, Julian spoke to George.
'George! It's awful for us to hear poor old Tim whining out there in the cold. And I'm sure I heardhim cough. Let me speak to Mr. Roland about him. You must feel simply dreadful knowing that Timis out there.'
'I thought I heard him cough, too,' said George, looking worried. 'I hope he won't get a cold. Hesimply doesn't understand why I have to put him there. He thinks I'm terribly unkind.'
The little girl turned her head away, afraid that tears might come into her eyes. She always boastedthat she never cried - but it was very difficult to keep the tears away when she thought of Timothy outthere in the cold.
Dick took her arm. 'Listen, George - you just hate Mr. Roland, and I suppose you can't help it.
But we can none of us bear Timothy being out there all alone - and it looks like snow today, whichwould be awful for him. Could you be awfully, awfully good today, and forget your dislike, so thatwhen your father asks Mr. Roland for your report, he can say you were very good- and then we'll all ask Mr. Roland if he wouldn't let Timmy come back into the house.'
'See?'
Timothy coughed again, out in the yard, and George's heart went cold. Suppose he got that awfulillness called pneumonia - and she couldn't nurse him because he had to live in the kennel ? Shewould die of unhappiness! She turned to Julian and Dick.
'All right,' she said. 'I do hate Mr. Roland - but I love Timothy more than I hate the tutor - so forTim's sake I'll pretend to be good and sweet and hard-working. And then you can beg him to letTimothy come back.'
'Good girl!' said Julian. 'Now here he comes - so do your best.'
To the tutor's enormous surprise, George gave him a smile when he came into the room. This was sounexpected that it puzzled him. He was even more puzzled to find that George worked 51harder than anyone for the rest of the morning, and she answered politely and cheerfully when hespoke to her. He gave her a word of praise.
'Well done, Georgina! I can see you've got brains.'
'Thank you," said George, and gave him another smile - a very watery, poor affair, compared with thehappy smiles the others had been used to - but still, it was a smile!
At dinner-time George looked after Mr. Roland most politely - passed him the salt, offered him morebread, got up to fill his glass when it was empty! The others looked at her in admiration.
George had plenty of pluck. She must be finding it very difficult to behave as if Mr. Roland was agreat friend, when she really disliked him so much!
Mr. Roland seemed very pleased, and appeared to be quite willing to respond to George'sfriendliness. He made a little joke with her, and offered to lend her a book he had about a dog.
George's mother was delighted to find that her difficult daughter seemed to be turning over a newleaf. Altogether things were very much happier that day.
'George, you go out of the room before your father comes in to ask Mr. Roland about your behaviourtonight,' said Julian. 'Then, when the tutor gives you a splendid report, we will all ask if Timothy cancome back. It will be easier if you are not there.'
'All right,' said George. She was longing for this difficult day to be over. It was very hard for her topretend to be friendly, when she was not. She could never never do it, if it wasn't for Timothy's sake!
George disappeared out of the room just before six o'clock, when she heard her father coming.
He walked into the room and nodded to Mr. Roland.
'Well? Have your pupils worked well today?' he asked.
'Very well indeed,' said Mr. Roland. 'Julian has really mastered something he didn't understand today.
Dick has done well in Latin. Anne has written out a French exercise without a single mistake!'
'And what about George?' asked Uncle Quentin.
'I was coming to Georgina,' said Mr. Roland, looking round and seeing that she was gone. 'She hasworked better than anyone else today! I am really pleased with her. She has tried hard - and she hasreally been polite and friendly. I feel she is trying to turn over a new leaf.'
'She's been a brick today,' said Julian, warmly. 'Uncle Quentin, she has tried awfully hard, she reallyhas. And, you know, she's terribly unhappy.'
52
'Why?' asked Uncle Quentin in surprise.
'Because of Timothy,' said Julian. 'He's out in the cold, you see. And he's got a dreadful cough.'
'Oh, Uncle Quentin, please do let poor Timmy come indoors,' begged Anne.
'Yes, please do,' said Dick. 'Not only for George's sake, because she loves him so, but for us too.
We hate to hear him whining outside. And George does deserve a reward, Uncle - she's beenmarvellous today.'
'Well,' said Uncle Quentin, looking doubtfully at the three eager faces before him, 'well - I hardlyknow what to say. If George is going to be sensible - and the weather gets colder - well...'
He looked at Mr. Roland, expecting to hear him say something in favour of Timothy. But the tutorsaid nothing. He looked annoyed.
'What do you think, Mr Roland?' asked Uncle Quentin.
'I think you should keep to what you said and let the dog stay outside,' said the tutor. 'George isspoilt, and needs firm handling. You should really keep to your decision about the dog. There is noreason to give way about it just because she has tried to be good for once!'
The three children stared at Mr. Roland in surprise and dismay. It had never entered their heads thathe would not back them up!
'Oh, Mr. Roland, you are horrid!' cried Anne. 'Oh, do, do say you'll have Timothy back.'
The tutor did not look at Anne. He pursed up his mouth beneath its thick moustache and lookedstraight at Uncle Quentin.
'Well,' said Uncle Quentin, 'perhaps we had better see how George behaves for a whole week.
After all - just one day isn't much.'
The children stared at him in disgust. They thought he was weak and unkind. Mr. Roland nodded hishead.
'Yes,' he said, 'a week will be a better test. If Georgina behaves well for a whole week, we'll haveanother word about the dog, sir. But at present I feel it would be better to keep him outside.'
'Very well,' said Uncle Quentin, and went out of the room. He paused to look back. 'Come along intomy study sometime,' he said. 'I've got a bit further with my formula. It's at a very interesting stage.'
The three children looked at one another but said nothing. How mean of the tutor to stop UncleQuentin from having Timothy indoors again! They all felt disappointed in him. The tutor saw theirfaces.
53
'I'm sorry to disappoint you,' he said. 'But I think if you'd been bitten by Timothy once and snapped atall over when he got you on the floor, you would not be very keen on having him in either!'
He went out of the room. The children wondered what to say to George. She came in a moment later,her face eager. But when she saw the gloomy looks of the other three, she stopped short.
'Isn't Tim to come in?' she asked, quickly. 'What's happened? Tell me!'
They told her. The little girl's face grew dark and angry when she heard how the tutor had put his footdown about Timothy, even when her father had himself suggested that the dog might come indoors.
'Oh, what a beast he is!' she cried. 'How I do hate him! I'll pay him out for this. I will, I will!'
She rushed out of the room. They heard her fumbling in the hall, and then the front door banged.
'She's gone out into the dark,' said Julian. I bet she's gone to Timmy. Poor old George. Now she'll beworse than ever!'
That night George could not sleep. She lay and tossed in her bed, listening for Timothy. She heardhim cough. She heard him whine. He was cold, she knew he was. She had put plenty of fresh strawinto his kennel and had turned it away from the cold north wind - but he must feel the bitter nightterribly, after sleeping for so long on her bed!
Timothy gave such a hollow cough that George could bear it no longer. She must, she simply must,get up and go down to him. 'I shall bring him into the house for a little while and rub his chest withsome of that stuff Mother uses for herself when she's got a cold on her chest,' thought the girl.
'Perhaps that will do him good.'
She quickly put a few clothes on and crept downstairs. The whole house was quiet. She slipped outinto the yard and undid Tim's chain. He was delighted to see her and licked her hands and facelovingly.
'Come along into the warm for a little while,' whispered the little girl. Ill rub your poor chest withsome oil I've got.'
Timmy pattered behind her into the house. She took him to the kitchen - but the fire was out and theroom was cold. George went to look at the other rooms.
There was quite a nice fire still in her father's study. She and Tim went in there. She did not put onthe light, because the firelight was fairly bright. She had with her the little bottle of oil from thebathroom cupboard. She put it down by the fire to warm.
54
Then she rubbed the dog's hairy chest with the oil, hoping it would do him good. 'Don't cough now ifyou can help it, Tim,' she whispered. 'If you do, someone may hear you. Lie down here by the fire,darling, and get nice and warm. Your cold will soon be better.'
Timothy lay down on the rug. He was glad to be out of his kennel and with his beloved mistress.
He put his head on her knee. She stroked him and whispered to him.
The firelight glinted on the curious instruments and glass tubes that stood around on shelves in herfather's study. A log shifted a little in the fire and settled lower, sending up a cloud of sparks.
It was warm and peaceful there.
The little girl almost fell asleep. The big dog closed his eyes too, and rested peacefully, happy andwarm. George settled down with her head on his neck.
She awoke to hear the study clock striking six! The room was cold now, and she shivered.
Goodness! Six o'clock! Joanna the cook would soon be awake. She must not find Timmy and Georgein the study!
'Tim darling! Wake up! We must put you back into your kennel,' whispered George. 'Im sure yourcold is better, because you haven't coughed once since you've been indoors. Get up - and don't makea noise. Sh!'
Tim stood up and shook himself. He licked George's hand. He understood perfectly that he must bequite quiet. The two of them slipped out of the study, went into the hall and out of the front door.
In a minute or two Timothy was on the chain, and in his kennel, cuddled down among the straw.
George wished she could cuddle there with him. She gave him a pat and slipped back indoors again.
She went up to bed, sleepy and cold. She forgot that she was partly dressed and got into bed just asshe was. She was asleep in a moment!
In the morning Anne was most amazed to find that George had on vest, knickers, skirt and jersey,when she got out of bed to dress.
'Look!' she said. 'You're half-dressed! But I saw you undressing last night.'
'Be quiet,' said George. 'I went down and let Tim in last night. We sat in front of the study fire and Irubbed him with oil. Now don't you dare to say a word to anyone! Promise!'
Anne promised - and she faithfully kept her word. Well, well - to think that George dared to roamabout like that all night - what an extraordinary girl she was!
10.


























































Chapter Eleven STOLEN PAPERS
Chapter Eleven STOLEN PAPERS
'GEORGE, don't behave fiercely today, will you?' said Julian, after breakfast. 'It won't do you orTimothy any good at all.'
'Do you suppose I'm going to behave well when I know perfectly well that Mr. Roland will never letme have Tim indoors all these holidays?' said George.
'Well - they said a week,' said Dick. 'Can't you try for a week?'
'No. At the end of a week Mr. Roland will say I must try for another week,' said George. 'He's got areal dislike for poor Tim. And for me too. I'm not surprised at that, because I know that when I try tobe horrid, I really am horrid. But he shouldn't hate poor Timmy.'
'Oh George - you'll spoil the whole holls if you are silly, and keep getting into trouble,' said Anne.
'Well, I'll spoil them then,' said George, the sulky look coming back on her face.
'I don't see why you have to spoil them for us, as well as for yourself,' said Julian.
'They don't need to be spoilt for you,' said George. 'You can have all the fun you want - go for walkswith your dear Mr. Roland, play games with him in the evening, and laugh and talk as much as youlike. You don't need to take any notice of me.'
'You are a funny girl, George,' said Julian, with a sigh. 'We like you, and we hate you to be unhappy -so how can we have fun if we know you are miserable - and Timmy too?'
'Don't worry about me' said George, in rather a choky voice. Im going out to Tim. I'm not coming into lessons today.'
'George! But you must!' said Dick and Julian together.
'There's no "must" about it,' said George. Im just not coming. I won't work with Mr. Roland till hesays I can have Timothy indoors again.'
'But you know you can't do things like that - you'll be spanked or something,' said Dick.
'I shall run away if things get too bad,' said George, in a shaky voice. 'I shall run away with Tim.'
She went out of the room and shut the door with a bang. The others stared after her. What could youdo with a person like George? Anyone could rule her with kindness and understanding - but as soonas she came up against anyone who disliked her, or whom she disliked, she shied away like afrightened horse - and kicked like a frightened horse, too!
56
Mr. Roland came into the sitting-room, his books in his hand. He smiled at the three children.
'Well? All ready for me, I see. Where's George?'
Nobody answered. Nobody was going to give George away!
'Don't you know where she is?' asked Mr. Roland in surprise. He looked at Julian.
'No, sir,' said Julian, truthfully. 'I've no idea where she is.'
'Well - perhaps she will come along in a few minutes,' said Mr. Roland. 'Gone to feed that dog ofhers, I suppose.'
They all settled down to work. The time went on and George did not come in. Mr. Roland glanced atthe clock and made an impatient clicking noise with his tongue.
'Really, it's too bad of George to be so late! Anne, go and see if you can find her.'
Anne went. She looked in the bedroom. There was no George there. She looked in the kitchen.
Joanna was there, making cakes. She gave the little girl a hot piece to eat. She had no idea whereGeorge was.
Anne couldn't find her anywhere. She went back and told Mr. Roland. He looked angry.
'I shall have to report this to her father,' he said. 'I have never had to deal with such a rebellious childbefore. She seems to do everything she possibly can to get herself into trouble.'
Lessons went on. Break came, and still George did not appear. Julian slipped out and saw that theyard-kennel was empty. So George had gone out with Timmy! What a row she would get into whenshe got back!
No sooner had the children settled down after Break to do the rest of the morning's lessons, than a bigdisturbance came.
Uncle Quentin burst into the room, looking upset and worried.
'Have any of you children been into my study?' he asked.
'No, Uncle Quentin,' they all answered.
'You said we weren't to,' said Julian.
'Why, sir? Has something been broken?' asked Mr. Roland.
'Yes - the test-tubes I set yesterday for an experiment have been broken - and what is worse, threemost important pages of my book have gone,' said Uncle Quentin. 'I can write them out again, butonly after a great deal of work. I can't understand it. Are you sure, children, that none of you has beenmeddling with things in my study?'
57
'Quite sure,' they answered. Anne went very red - she suddenly remembered what George had toldher. George said she had taken Timmy into Uncle Quentin's study last night, and rubbed his chestwith oil! But George couldn't possibly have broken the test-tubes, and taken pages from her father'sbook!
Mr. Roland noticed that Anne had gone red.
'Do you know anything about this, Anne?' he asked.
'No, Mr. Roland,' said Anne, blushing even redder, and looking very uncomfortable indeed.
'Where's George?' suddenly said Uncle Quentin.
The children said nothing, and it was Mr. Roland who answered:
'We don't know. She didn't come to lessons this morning.'
'Didn't come to lessons! Why not?' demanded Uncle Quentin, beginning to frown.
'She didn't say,' said Mr. Roland dryly. 'I imagine she was upset because we were firm about Timothylast night, sir - and this is her way of being defiant.'
'The naughty girl!' said George's father, angrily. 'I don't know what's come over her lately.
Fanny! Come here! Did you know that George hasn't been in to her lessons today?'
Aunt Fanny came into the room. She looked very worried. She held a little bottle in her hand.
The children wondered what it was.
'Didn't come in to lessons!' repeated Aunt Fanny. 'How extraordinary! Then where is she?'
'I don't think you need to worry about her,' said Mr. Roland, smoothly. 'She's probably gone off withTimothy in a fit of temper. What is very much more important, sir, is the fact that your work appearsto have been spoilt by someone. I only hope it is not George, who has been spiteful enough to payyou out for not allowing her to have her dog in the house.'
'Of course it wasn't George!' cried Dick, angry that anyone should even think such a thing of hiscousin.
'George would never, never do a thing like that,' said Julian.
'No, she never would,' said Anne, sticking up valiantly for her cousin, although a horrid doubt was inher mind. After all - George had been in the study last night!
'Quentin, I am sure George would not even think of such a thing,' said Aunt Fanny. 'You will findthose pages somewhere - and as for the test-tubes that were broken, well, perhaps the wind blew thecurtain against them, or something! When did you last see those pages?'
58
'Last night,' said Uncle Quentin. 'I read them over again, and checked my figures to make sure theywere right. These pages contain the very heart of my formula! If they got into anyone else's hands,they could use my secret. This is a terrible thing for me! I must know what has happened to them.'
'I found this in your study, Quentin,' said Aunt Fanny, and she held up the little bottle she carried.
'Did you put it there? It was in the fender.'
Uncle Quentin took the bottle and stared at it. 'Camphorated oil!' he said. 'Of course I didn't take itthere. Why should I?'
'Well - who took it there, then?' asked Aunt Fanny, puzzled. 'None of the children has a cold -and anyway, they wouldn't think of the camphorated oil, and take it into the study to use! It's mostextraordinary!'
Everyone was astonished. Why should a bottle of camphorated oil appear in the study fender?
Only one person could think why. It suddenly came into Anne's mind in a flash. George had said shehad taken Timmy into the study, and rubbed him with oil! He had had a cough, that was why.
And she had left the oil in the study. Oh dear, oh dear - now what would happen? What a pity Georgehad forgotten the oil!
Anne went very red again as she looked at the oil. Mr. Roland, whose eyes seemed very sharp thismorning, looked hard at the little girl.
'Anne! You know something about that oil!' he said suddenly. 'What do you know? Did you put itthere?'
'No,' said Anne. 'I haven't been into the study. I said I hadn't.'
'Do you know anything about the oil?' said Mr. Roland, again. 'You do know something.'
Everyone stared at Anne. She stared back. This was simply dreadful. She could not give Georgeaway. She could not. George was in quite enough trouble as it was, without getting into any more.
She pursed up her little mouth and did not answer.
'Anne!' said Mr. Roland, sternly. 'Answer when you are spoken to.'
Anne said nothing. The two boys stared at her, guessing that it was something to do with George.
They did not know that George had brought Timothy in the night before.
'Anne, dear,' said her aunt, gently. 'Tell us if you know something. It might help us to find out whathas happened to Uncle Quentin's papers. It is very, very, important.'
Still Anne said nothing. Her eyes filled with tears. Julian squeezed her arm.
59
'Don't bother Anne,' he said to the grown-ups. 'If she thinks she can't tell you, she's got some verygood reason.'
'I think she's shielding George,' said Mr. Roland. 'Is that it, Anne?'
Anne burst into tears. Julian put his arms round his little sister, and spoke again to the three grown-ups.
'Don't bother Anne! Can't you see she's upset?'
'We'll let George speak for herself, when she thinks she will come in,' said Mr. Roland. 'I'm sure sheknows how that bottle got there - and if she put it there herself must have been into the study- and she's the only person that has been there.'
The boys could not think for one moment that George would do such a thing as spoil her father'swork. Anne feared it, and it upset her. She sobbed in Julian's arms.
'When George comes in, send her to me in my study,' said Uncle Quentin, irritably. 'How can a manwork when these upsets go on? I was always against having children in the house.'
He stamped out, tall, cross and frowning. The children were glad to see him go. Mr. Roland shut thebooks on the table with a snap.
'We can't do any more lessons this morning,' he said. Put on your things and go out for a walk tilldinner-time.'
'Yes, do,' said Aunt Fanny, looking white and worried. 'That's a good idea.'
Mr. Roland and their aunt went out of the room. 'I don't know if Mr. Roland thinks he's coming outwith us,' said Julian, in a low voice, 'but we've got to get out first and give him the slip.
We've got to find George and warn her what's up.'
'Right!' said Dick. 'Dry your eyes, Anne darling. Hurry and get your things. We'll slip out of thegarden door before Mr. Roland comes down. I bet George has gone for her favourite walk over thecliffs. We'll meet her!' The three children threw on their outdoor things and crept out of the gardendoor quietly. They raced down the garden path, and out of the gate before Mr. Roland even knewthey were gone! They made their way to the cliffs, and looked to see if George was coming.
'There she is - and Timothy, too!' cried Julian, pointing. 'George! George! Quick, we've gotsomething to tell you!'
11.





































































Chapter Twelve GEORGE IN TROUBLE
Chapter Twelve GEORGE IN TROUBLE
'WHAT'S the matter?' asked George, as the three children tore up to her. 'Has something happened?'
'Yes, George. Someone has taken three most important pages out of your father's book!' pantedJulian. 'And broken the test-tubes he was making an experiment with. Mr. Roland thinks you mighthave had something to do with it!'
'The beast!' said George, her blue eyes deepening with anger. 'As if I'd do a thing like that! Whyshould he think it's me, anyway?'
'Well, George, you left that bottle of oil in the study fender,' said Anne. 'I haven't told anyone at allwhat you told me happened last night - but somehow Mr. Roland guessed you had something to dowith the bottle of oil.'
'Didn't you tell the boys how I got Timmy indoors?' asked George. 'Well, there's nothing much to tell,Julian, I just heard poor old Tim coughing in the night, and I half-dressed, went down, and took himinto the study, where there was a fire. Mother keeps a bottle of oil that she used to rub her chest withwhen she has a cough - so I thought it might do Timmy's cold good, too. I got the oil and rubbed himwell - and we both fell asleep by the fire till six o'clock. I was sleepy when I woke up, and forgot theoil. That's all.'
'And you didn't take any pages from the book Uncle Quentin is writing, and you didn't break anythingin the study, did you?' said Anne.
'Of course not, silly,' said George, indignantly. 'How can you ask me a thing like that? You must bemad.'
George never told a lie, and the others always believed her, whatever she said. They stared at her, andshe stared back.
'I wonder who could have taken those pages then?' said Julian. 'Maybe your father will come acrossthem, after all. I expect he put them into some safe place and then forgot all about them.
And the test-tubes might easily have over-balanced and broken themselves. Some of them look veryshaky to me.'
'I suppose I shall get into trouble now for taking Tim into the study,' said George.
61
'And for not coming into lessons this morning,' said Dick. 'You really are an idiot, George. I neverknew anyone like you for walking right into trouble.'
'Hadn't you better stay out a bit longer, till everyone has calmed down a bit?' said Anne.
'No,' said George at once. 'If I'm going to get into a row, I'll get into it now! I'm not afraid!'
She marched over the cliff path, with Timmy running round her as usual. The others followed. Itwasn't nice to think that George was going to get into such trouble.
They came to the house and went up the path.
Mr. Roland saw them from the window and opened the door. He glanced at George.
'Your father wants to see you in the study,' said the tutor. Then he turned to the others, lookingannoyed.
'Why did you go out without me? I meant to go with you.'
'Oh did you, sir? I'm sorry,' said Julian, politely, not looking at Mr. Roland. 'We just went out on thecliff a little way.'
'Georgina, did you go into the study last night?' asked Mr. Roland, watching George as she took offher hat and coat.
Ill answer my father's questions, not yours,' said George.
'What you want is a good spanking,' said Mr. Roland. 'And if I were your father I'd give it to you!'
'You're not my father,' answered George. She went to the study door and opened it. There was no onethere.
'Father isn't here,' said George.
'He'll be there in a minute,' said Mr. Roland. 'Go in and wait. And you others, go up and wash forlunch.'
The other three children felt almost as if they were deserting George as they went up the stairs.
They could hear Timmy whining from the yard outside. He knew his little mistress was in trouble,and he wanted to be with her.
George sat down on a chair, and gazed at the fire, remembering how she had sat on the rug there withTim last night, rubbing his hairy chest. How silly of her to have forgotten the bottle of oil!
Her father came into the room, frowning and angry. He looked sternly at George.
'Were you in here last night, George?' he asked.
'Yes, I was,' answered George at once.
62
'What were you doing in here?' asked her father. 'You know you children are forbidden to come intomy study.'
'I know,' said George. 'But you see Timmy had a dreadful cough, and I couldn't bear it. So I creptdown about one o'clock and let him in. This was the only room that was really warm, so I sat hereand rubbed his chest with the oil Mother uses when she has a cold.'
'Rubbed the dog's chest with camphorated oil!' exclaimed her father, in amazement. 'What a madthing to do! As if it would do him any good.'
'It didn't seem mad to me,' said George. 'It seemed sensible. And Timmy's cough is much bettertoday. I'm sorry for coming into the study. I didn't touch a thing, of course.'
'George, something very serious has happened,' said her father, looking gravely at her. 'Some of mytest-tubes with which I was doing an important experiment, have been broken - and, worse than that,three pages of my book have gone. Tell me on your honour that you know nothing of these things.'
'I know nothing of them,' said George, looking her father straight in the eyes. Her own eyes shonevery blue and clear as she gazed at him. He felt quite certain that George was speaking the truth. Shecould know nothing of the damage done. Then where were those pages?
'George, last night when I went to bed at eleven o'clock, everything was in order,' he said. 'I read overthose three important pages and checked them once more myself. This morning they are gone.'
'Then they must have been taken between eleven o'clock and one o'clock,' said George. 'I was herefrom that time until six.'
'But who could have taken them?' said her father. 'The window was fastened, as far as I know.
And nobody knows that those three pages were so important but myself. It is most extraordinary.'
'Mr. Roland probably knew,' said George, slowly.
'Don't be absurd,' said her father. 'Even if he did realize they were important, he would not have takenthem. He's a very decent fellow. And that reminds me - why were you not at lessons this morning,George?'
'I'm not going to do lessons any more with Mr. Roland,' said George. 'I simply hate him!'
'George! I will not have you talking like this!' said her father. 'Do you want me to say you are to loseTim altogether?'
63
'No,' said George, feeling shaky about the knees. 'And I don't think it's fair to keep trying to force meto do things by threatening me with losing Timothy. If - if -you do a thing like that - I'll - I'll runaway or something!'
There were no tears in George's eyes. She sat bolt upright on her chair, gazing defiantly at her father.
How difficult she was! Her father sighed, and remembered that he too in his own childhood had beencalled 'difficult'. Perhaps George took after him. She could be so good and sweet - and here she wasbeing perfectly impossible!
Her father did not know what to do with George. He thought he had better have a word with his wife.
He got up and went to the door.
'Stay here. I shall be back in a moment. I want to speak to your mother about you.'
'Don't speak to Mr. Roland about me, will you?' said George, who felt quite certain that the tutorwould urge terrible punishments for her and Timmy. 'Oh, Father, if only Timothy had been in thehouse last night, sleeping in my room as usual, he would have heard whoever it was that stole yoursecret - and he would have barked and roused the house!'
Her father said nothing, but he knew that what George had said was true. Timmy wouldn't have letanyone get into the study. It was funny he hadn't barked in the night, if anyone from outside hadclimbed in at the study window. Still, it was the other side of the house. Maybe he had heard nothing.
The door closed. George sat still on her chair, gazing up at the mantelpiece, where a clock tickedaway the time. She felt very miserable. Everything was going wrong, every single thing!
As she gazed at the panelled overmantel, she counted the wooden panels. There were eight.
Now, where had she heard of eight panels before? Of course - in that Secret Way. There were eightpanels marked on the roll of linen. What a pity there had not been eight panels in a wooden over-mantel at Kirrin Farmhouse!
George glanced out of the window, and wondered if it faced east. She looked to see where the sunwas - it was not shining into the room - but it did in the early morning - so it must face east.
Fancy - here was a room facing east and with eight wooden panels. She wondered if it had a stonefloor.
The floor was covered with a large thick carpet. George got up and went to the wall. She pulled upthe edge of the carpet there - and saw that the floor underneath was made of large flat stones.
The study had a stone floor too!
64
She sat down again and gazed at the wooden panels, trying to remember which one in the roll oflinen was marked with a cross. But of course it couldn't be a room in Kirrin Cottage - it must be inKirrin Farmhouse where the Secret Way began.
But just suppose it was Kirrin Cottage! Certainly the directions had been found in Kirrin Farmhouse -but that was not to say that the Secret Way had to begin there, even though Mrs.
Sanders seemed to think it did.
George was feeling excited. 'I must tap round about those eight panels and try to find the one that ismarked on the linen roll,' she thought. 'It may slide back or something, and I shall suddenly see theentrance opening!'
She got up to try her luck - but at that moment the door opened again and her father came in. Helooked very grave.
'I have been talking to your mother,' he said. 'She agrees with me that you have been verydisobedient, rude and defiant. We can't let behaviour like that pass, George. You will have to bepunished.'
George looked anxiously at her father. If only her punishment had nothing to do with Timothy!
But, of course, it had.
'You will go to bed for the rest of the day, and you will not see Timothy for three days,' said herfather. 'I will get Julian to feed him and take him for a walk. If you persist in being defiant, Timothywill have to go away altogether. I am afraid, queer as it may seem, that that dog has a bad influenceon you.'
'He hasn't, he hasn't!' cried George. 'Oh, he'll be so miserable if I don't see him for three whole days.'
'There's nothing more to be said,' said her father. 'Go straight upstairs to bed, and think over all I havesaid to you, George. I am very disappointed in your behaviour these holidays. I really did think theinfluence of your three cousins had made you into a normal, sensible girl. Now you are worse thanyou have ever been.'
He held open the door and George walked out, holding her head high. She heard the others havingtheir dinner in the dining-room. She went straight upstairs and undressed. She got into bed andthought miserably of not seeing Tim for three days. She couldn't bear it! Nobody could possiblyknow how much she loved Timothy!
65
Joanna came up with a tray of dinner. 'Well, Miss, it's a pity to see you in bed,' she said cheerfully.
'Now you be a sensible girl and behave properly and you'll soon be downstairs again.'
George picked at her dinner. She did not feel at all hungry. She lay back on the bed, thinking of Timand thinking of the eight panels over the mantelpiece. Could they possibly be the ones shown in theSecret Way directions? She gazed out of the window and thought hard.
'Golly, it's snowing!' she said suddenly, sitting up. I thought it would when I saw that leaden sky thismorning. It's snowing hard! It will be quite thick by tonight - inches deep. Oh, poor Timothy.
I hope Julian will see that his kennel is kept clear of the drifting snow.'
George had plenty of time to think as she lay in bed.
Joanna came and took the tray away. No one else came to see her. George felt sure the other childrenhad been forbidden to go up and speak to her. She felt lonely and left-out.
She thought of her father's lost pages. Could Mr. Roland have taken them? After all, he was veryinterested in her father's work and seemed to understand it. The thief must have been someone whoknew which were the important pages. Surely Timothy would have barked if a thief had come infrom outside, even though the study was the other side of the house. Timmy had such sharp ears.
'I think it must have been someone inside the house,' said George. 'None of us children, that's certain- and not Mother or Joanna. So that only leaves Mr. Roland. And I did find him in the study that othernight when Timmy woke me by growling.'
She sat up in bed suddenly. 'I believe Mr. Roland had Timothy put out of the house because hewanted to go poking round the study again and was afraid Tim would bark!' she thought. 'He was sovery insistent that Tim should go out of doors - even when everyone else begged for me to have himindoors. I believe -1 really do believe - that Mr. Roland is the thief!'
The little girl felt very excited. Could it be that the tutor had stolen the pages - and broken thoseimportant test-tubes? How she wished that the others would come and see her, so that she could talkthings over with them!
12.

































11
11
































Chapter Thirteen JULIAN HAS A SURPRISE
Chapter Thirteen JULIAN HAS A SURPRISE
THE three children downstairs felt very sorry for George. Uncle Quentin had forbidden them to goup and see her.
'A little time for thinking out things all alone may do George good,' he said.
'Poor old George,' said Julian. 'It's too bad, isn't it? I say - look at the snow!'
The snow was falling very thickly. Julian went to the window and looked out. 'I shall have to go andsee that Timmy's kennel is all right,' he said. 'We don't want the poor old fellow to be snowed up! Iexpect he is wondering what the snow is!'
Timothy was certainly very puzzled to see everywhere covered with soft white stuff. He sat in hiskennel and stared out at the falling flakes, his big brown eyes following them as they fell to theground. He was puzzled and unhappy. Why was he living out here by himself in the cold?
Why didn't George come to him? Didn't she love him any more? The big dog was very miserable, asmiserable as George!
He was delighted to see Julian. He jumped up at the boy and licked his face. 'Good old Tim!' saidJulian. 'Are you all right? Let me sweep away some of this snow and swing your kennel round a bitso that no flakes fly inside. There - that's better. No, we're not going for a walk, old thing - not now.'
The boy patted the dog and fussed him a bit, then went indoors. The others met him at the sitting-room door.
'Julian! Mr. Roland is going out for a walk by himself. Aunt Fanny is lying down, and Uncle Quentinis in his study. Can't we go up and see George?'
'We were forbidden to,' said Julian, doubtfully.
I know,' said Dick. 'But I don't mind risking it for the sake of making George feel a bit happier. Itmust be so awful for her, lying up there all alone, knowing she can't see Tim for days.'
'Well - let me go up, as I'm the eldest,' said Julian. 'You two stay down here in the sitting-room andtalk. Then Uncle Quentin will think we're all here. I'll slip up and see George for a few minutes.'
'All right,' said Dick. 'Give her our love and tell her we'll look after Timmy.'
67
Julian slipped quietly up the stairs. He opened George's door and crept inside. He shut the door, andsaw George sitting up in bed, looking at him in delight.
'Sh!' said Julian. 'I'm not supposed to be here!'
'Oh Julian!' said George joyfully. 'How good of you to come. I was so lonely. Come this side of thebed. Then if anyone comes in suddenly, you can duck down and hide.'
Julian went to the other side of the bed. George began to pour out to him all she had been thinking of.
'I believe Mr. Roland is the thief, I really do!' she said. 'I'm not saying that because I hate him, Julian,really I'm not. After all, I did find him snooping round the study one afternoon - and again in themiddle of the night. He may have got to hear of my father's work, and come to see if he could steal it.
It was just lucky for him that we needed a tutor. I'm sure he stole those pages, and I'm sure he wantedTimmy out of the house so that he could do his stealing without Tim hearing him and growling.'
'Oh, George - I don't think so,' said Julian, who really could not approve of the idea of the tutor doingsuch a thing. 'It all sounds so far-fetched and unbelievable.'
'Lot's of unbelievable things happen,' said George. 'Lots. And this is one of them.'
'Well, if Mr. Roland did steal the pages, they must be somewhere in the house,' said Julian. 'He hasn'tbeen out all day. They must be somewhere in his bedroom.'
'Of course!' said George, looking thrilled. I wish he'd go out! Then I'd search his room.'
'George, you can't do things like that,' said Julian, quite shocked.
'You simply don't know what things I can do, if I really want to,' said George, setting her mouth in afirm line. 'Oh - what's that noise?'
There was the bang of a door. Julian went cautiously to the window and peeped out. The snow hadstopped falling for a time, and Mr. Roland had taken the chance of going out.
'It's Mr. Roland,' said Julian.
'Oooh - I could search his room now, if you'll keep watch at the window and tell me if he comesback,' said George, throwing back the bedclothes at once.
'No, George, don't,' said Julian. 'Honestly and truly, it's awful to search somebody's room like that.
And anyway, I dare say he's got the pages with him. He may even be going to give them tosomebody!'
68
'I never thought of that,' said George, and she looked at Julian with wide eyes. 'Isn't that sickening?
Of course he may be doing that. He knows those two artists at Kirrin Farmhouse, for instance. Theymay be in the plot too.'
'Oh, George, don't be silly,' said Julian. 'You are making a mountain out of a mole-hill, talking ofplots and goodness knows what! Anyone would think we were in the middle of a big adventure.'
'Well, I think we are,' said George, unexpectedly, and she looked rather solemn. 'I sort of feel it allround me - a Big Adventure!'
Julian stared at his cousin thoughtfully. Could there possibly be anything in what she said?
'Julian, will you do something for me?' said George.
'Of course,' said the boy, at once.
'Go out and follow Mr. Roland,' said George. 'Don't let him see you. There's a white mackintoshcloak in the hall cupboard. Put it on and you won't be easily seen against the snow. Follow him andsee if he meets anyone and gives them anything that looks like the pages of my father's book- you know those big pages he writes on. They're very large.'
'All right,' said Julian. 'But if I do, promise you won't go and search his room. You can't do thingslike that, George.'
'I can,' said George. 'But I won't, if you'll just follow Mr. Roland for me. I'm sure he's going to handover what he has stolen to others who are in the plot! And I bet those others will be the two artists atKirrin Farmhouse that he pretended not to know!'
'You'll find you're quite wrong,' said Julian, going to the door. 'I'm sure I shan't be able to follow Mr.
Roland, anyway - he's been gone five minutes now!'
'Yes, you will, silly - he'll have left his footmarks in the snow,' said George. 'And oh, Julian - I quiteforgot to tell you something else exciting. Oh dear, there isn't time now. I'll tell you when you comeback, if you can come up again then. It's about the Secret Way.'
'Really?' said Julian, in delight. It had been a great disappointment to him that all their hunting andsearching had come to nothing. 'All right - I'll try and creep up again later. If I don't come, you'llknow I can't, and you must wait till bed-time.'
He disappeared and shut the door quietly. He slipped downstairs, popped his head into the sitting-room and whispered to the others that he was going out after the tutor.
'Tell you why, later,' he said. He put the white mackintosh cloak around him and went out into thegarden. Snow was beginning to fall again, but not yet heavily enough to hide Mr. Roland's 69deep footsteps. He had had big Wellington boots on, and the footmarks showed up well in the six-inch-deep snow.
The boy followed them quickly. The countryside was very wintry-looking now. The sky was low andleaden, and he could see there was much more snow to come. He hurried on after Mr.
Roland, though he could not see a sign of the tutor.
Down the lane, and over the path that led across the common went the double row of footmarks.
Julian stumbled on, his eyes glued to the foot-prints. Suddenly he heard the sound of voices andstopped. A big gorse bush lay to the right and the voices came from there. The boy went nearer to thebush. He heard his tutor's voice, talking in low tones. He could not hear a word that was said.
'Whoever can he be talking to?' he wondered. He crept up closer to the bush. There was a hollowspace inside. Julian thought he could creep right into it, though it would be very prickly, and peer outof the other side. Carefully the boy crept into the prickly hollow, where the branches were bare andbrown.
He parted the prickly branches slowly and cautiously - and to his amazement he saw Mr. Rolandtalking to the two artists from Kirrin Farmhouse - Mr. Thomas and Mr. Wilton! So George was right.
The tutor had met them - and, as Julian watched, Mr. Roland handed over to Mr. Thomas a doubledup sheaf of papers.
'They look just like pages from Uncle Quentin's book,' said Julian to himself. 'I say - this is mightyqueer. It does begin to look like a plot - with Mr. Roland as the centre of it!'
Mr. Thomas put the papers into the pocket of his overcoat. The men muttered a few more words,which even Julian's sharp ears could not catch, and then parted. The artists went off towards KirrinFarmhouse, and Mr. Roland took the path back over the common. Julian crouched down in thehollow of the prickly gorse bush, hoping the tutor would not turn and see him. Luckily he didn't. Hewent straight on and disappeared into the snow, which was now falling thickly. It was also beginningto get dark and Julian, unable to see the path very clearly, hurried after Mr.
Roland, half-afraid of being lost in the snow-storm.
Mr. Roland was not anxious to be out longer than he could help, either. He almost ran back to KirrinCottage. He came to the gate at last, and Julian watched him go into the house. He gave him a littletime to take off his things and then, giving Timothy a pat as he went by, he went to 70the garden door. He took off his mackintosh cloak, changed his boots, and slipped into the sitting-room before Mr. Roland had come down from his bedroom.
'What's happened?' asked Dick and Anne, seeing that Julian was in a great state of excitement.
But he could not tell them, for at that moment Joanna came in to lay the tea.
Much to Julian's disappointment, he could not say a word to the others all that evening, because oneor other of the grown-ups was always in the room. Neither could he go up to see George. He couldhardly wait to tell his news, but it was no good, he had to.
'Is it still snowing, Aunt Fanny?' asked Anne.
Her aunt went to the front door and looked out. The snow was piled high against the step!
'Yes,' she said, when she came back. 'It is snowing fast and thickly. If it goes on like this we shall becompletely snowed up, as we were two winters ago! We couldn't get out of the house for five daysthen. The milkman couldn't get to us, nor the baker. Fortunately we had plenty of tinned milk, and Ican bake my-own bread. Poor children - you will not be able to go out tomorrow - the snow will betoo thick!'
'Will Kirrin Farmhouse be snowed up too?' asked Mr. Roland.
'Oh yes - worse than we shall be,' said Aunt Fanny. 'But they won't mind! They have plenty of foodthere. They will be prisoners just as much, and more, as we shall.'
Julian wondered why Mr. Roland had asked that question. Was he afraid that his friends would not beable to send those pages away by the post - or take them anywhere by bus or car? The boy felt certainthis was the reason for the question. How he longed to be able to talk over everything with the others.
'I'm tired!' he said, about eight o'clock. 'Let's go to bed.'
Dick and Anne stared at him in astonishment. Usually, as he was the eldest, he went to bed last of all.
Tonight he was actually asking to go! Julian winked quickly at them, and they backed him up atonce.
Dick yawned widely, and so did Anne. Their aunt put down the sewing she was doing. 'You do soundtired!' she said. 'I think you'd better all go to bed.'
'Could I just go out and see if Timmy is all right?' asked Julian. His aunt nodded. The boy put on hisrubber boots and coat, and slipped out through the garden door into the yard. It was very deep insnow, too. Tim's kennel was half-hidden in it. The dog had trampled a space in front of the kenneldoor, and stood there, looking for Julian as he came out of the house.
71
'Poor old boy, out here in the snow all alone,' said Julian. He patted the dog, and Timmy whined.
He was asking to go back with the boy.
'I wish I could take you back with me,' said Julian. 'Never mind, Timothy. I'll come and see youtomorrow.'
He went indoors again. The children said good night to their aunt and Mr. Roland, and went upstairs.
'Undress quickly, put on dressing-gowns and meet in George's room,' whispered Julian to the others.
'Don't make a sound or we'll have Aunt Fanny up. Quick now!'
In less than three minutes the children were undressed, and were sitting on George's bed. She wasvery pleased to see them. Anne slipped into bed with her, because her feet were cold.
'Julian! Did you follow Mr. Roland all right?' whispered George.
'Why did he follow him?' asked Dick, who had been dying to know.
Julian told them everything as quickly as he could - all that George suspected - and how he hadfollowed the tutor - and what he had seen. When George heard how Julian had watched him giving asheaf of papers to the two artists, her eyes gleamed angrily.
'The thief! They must have been the lost pages! And to think my father has been so friendly to him.
Oh, what can we do? Those men will get the papers away as quickly as they can, and the secretFather has been working on for ages will be used by someone else - for some other country,probably!'
'They can't get the papers away,' said Julian. 'You've no idea how thick the snow is now, George.
We shall be prisoners here for a few days, if this snow goes on, and so will the people in KirrinFarmhouse. If they want to hide the papers, they will have to hide them in the farmhouse! If only wecould get over there and hunt round!'
'Well, we can't,' said Dick. 'That's quite certain. We'd be up to our necks in snow!'
The four children looked gloomily at one another. Dick and Anne could hardly believe that the jollyMr. Roland was a thief - a spy perhaps, trying to steal a valuable secret from a friendly scientist. Andthey couldn't stop it.
'We'd better tell your father,' said Julian at last.
'No,' said Anne. 'He wouldn't believe it, would he, George?'
'He'd laugh at us and go straight and tell Mr. Roland,' said George. 'That would warn him, and hemustn't be warned. He mustn't know that we guess anything.'
72
'Sh! Aunt Fanny's coming!' whispered Dick, suddenly. The boys slipped out of the room and intobed. Anne hopped across to her own little bed. All was peace and quiet when the children's aunt cameinto the bedroom.
She said good night and tucked them up. As soon as she had gone down, the four children mettogether again in George's room.
'George, tell me now what you were going to say about the Secret Way,' said Julian.
'Oh yes,' said George. 'Well, there may be nothing in my idea at all - but in the study downstairs,there are eight wooden panels over the mantelpiece - and the floor is of stone - and the room faceseast! A bit queer, isn't it? Just what the directions said.'
'Is there a cupboard there too?' asked Julian.
'No. But there is everything else,' said George. 'And I was just wondering if by any chance theentrance to the Secret Way is in this house, not in the farmhouse. After all, they both belonged to myfamily at one time, you know. The people living in the farmhouse years ago must have known allabout this cottage.'
'Golly, George - suppose the entrance was here!' said Dick. 'Wouldn't it be simply marvellous!
Let's go straight down and look!'
'Don't be silly,' said Julian. 'Go down to the study when Uncle Quentin is there? I'd rather meettwenty lions than face Uncle! Especially after what has happened!'
'Well, we simply MUST find out if George's idea is right; we simply must,' said Dick, forgetting towhisper.
'Shut up, idiot!' said Julian, giving him a punch. 'Do you want to bring the whole household up here?'
'Sorry!' said Dick. 'But, oh golly, this is exciting. It's an Adventure again.'
'Just what I said,' said George, eagerly. 'Listen, shall we wait till midnight, and then creep down tothe study when everyone is asleep, and try our luck? There may be nothing in my idea at all -but we'll have to find out now. I don't believe I could go to sleep till I've tried one of those panelsover the mantelpiece to see if something happens.'
'Well, I know I can't sleep a wink either,' said Dick. 'Listen - is that someone coming up? We'd bettergo.
Come on, Julian! Meet in George's room at midnight - and we'll creep down and try out George'sidea!'
73
The two boys went off to their own room. Neither of them could sleep a wink. Nor could George. Shelay awake, and went over and over in her mind all that had happened those holidays.
'It's like a jigsaw puzzle,' she thought. 'I couldn't understand a lot of things at first - but now they arefitting together, and making a picture.'
Anne was fast asleep. She had to be awakened at midnight. 'Come on!' whispered Julian, shaking her.
'Don't you want to share in this adventure?'
13.

















































































20







Chapter Fourteen THE SECRET WAY AT LAST!
Chapter Fourteen THE SECRET WAY AT LAST!
THE four children crept downstairs through the dark and silent night. Nobody made a sound at all.
They made their way to the study. George softly closed the door and then switched on the light.
The children stared at the eight panels over the mantelpiece. Yes - there were exactly eight, four inone row and four in the row above. Julian spread the linen roll out on the table, and the childrenpored over it.
'The cross is in the middle of the second panel in the top row,' said Julian, in a low voice. Ill trypressing it. Watch, all of you!'
He went to the fireplace. The others followed him, their hearts beating fast with excitement.
Julian stood on tiptoe and began to press hard in the middle of the second panel. Nothing happened.
'Press harder! Tap it!' said Dick.
'I daren't make too much noise,' said Julian, feeling all over the panel to see if there was anyroughness that might tell of a hidden spring or lever.
Suddenly, under his hands, the panel slid silently back, just as the one had done at Kirrin Farmhousein the hall! The children stared at the space behind, thrilled.
'It's not big enough to get into,' said George. 'It can't be the entrance to the Secret Way.'
Julian got out his torch from his dressing-gown pocket. He put it inside the opening, and gave a lowexclamation.
74
'There's a sort of handle here - with strong wire or something attached to it. I'll pull it and see whathappens.'
He pulled - but he was not strong enough to move the handle that seemed to be embedded in the wall.
Dick put his hand in and the two boys then pulled together.
'It's moving - it's giving way a bit,' panted Julian. 'Go on, Dick, pull hard!'
The handle suddenly came away from the wall, and behind it came thick wire, rusty and old. At thesame time a curious grating noise came from below the hearthrug in front of the fireplace, and Annealmost fell.
'Julian! Something is moving under the rug!' she said, frightened. 'I felt it. Under the rug, quick!'
The handle could not be pulled out any farther. The boys let go, and looked down. To the right of thefireplace, under the rug, something had moved. There was no doubt of that. The rug sagged downinstead of being flat and straight.
'A stone has moved in the floor,' said Julian, his voice shaking with excitement. 'This handle works alever, which is attached to this wire. Quick - pull up the rug, and roll back the carpet.'
With trembling hands the children pulled back the rug and the carpet - and then stood staring at avery strange thing. A big flat stone laid in the floor had slipped downwards, pulled in some mannerby the wire attached to the handle hidden behind the panel! There was now a black space where thestone had been.
'Look at that!' said George, in a thrilling whisper. 'The entrance to the Secret Way!'
'It's here after all!' said Julian.
'Let's go down!' said Dick.
'No!' said Anne, shivering at the thought of disappearing into the black hole.
Julian flashed his torch into the black space. The stone had slid down and then sideways. Below wasa space just big enough to take a man, bending down.
'I expect there's a passage or something leading from here, under the house, and out,' said Julian.
'Golly, I wonder where it leads to?'
'We simply must find out,' said George.
'Not now,' said Dick. 'It's dark and cold. I don't fancy going along the Secret Way at midnight. I don'tmind just hopping down to see what it's like - but don't let's go along any passage till tomorrow.'
'Uncle Quentin will be working here tomorrow,' said Julian.
75
'He said he was going to sweep the snow away from the front door in the morning,' said George.
'We could slip into the study then. It's Saturday. There may be no lessons.'
'All right,' said Julian, who badly wanted to explore everything then and there. 'But for goodness sakelet's have a look and see if there is a passage down there. At present all we can see is a hole!'
Ill help you down,' said Dick. So he gave his brother a hand and the boy dropped lightly down intothe black space, holding his torch. He gave a loud exclamation.
'It's the entrance to the Secret Way all right! There's a passage leading from here under the house- awfully low and narrow - but I can see it's a passage. I do wonder where it leads to!'
He shivered. It was cold and damp down there. 'Give me a hand up, Dick,' he said. He was soon outof the hole and in the warm study again.
The children looked at one another in the greatest joy and excitement. This was an Adventure, a realAdventure. It was a pity they couldn't go on with it now.
'We'll try and take Timmy with us tomorrow,' said George. 'Oh, I say - how are we going to shut theentrance up?
'We can't leave the rug and carpet sagging over that hole,' said Dick. 'Nor can we leave the panelopen.'
'We'll see if we can get the stone back,' said Julian. He stood on tiptoe and felt about inside the panel.
His hand closed on a kind of knob, set deep in a stone. He pulled it, and at once the handle slid back,pulled by the wire. At the same time the sunk stone glided to the surface of the floor again, making aslight grating sound as it did so.
'Well, it's like magic!' said Dick. 'It really is! Fancy the mechanism working so smoothly after yearsof not being used. This is the most exciting thing I've ever seen!'
There was a noise in the bedroom above. The children stood still and listened.
'It's Mr. Roland!' whispered Dick. 'He's heard us. Quick, slip upstairs before he comes down.'
They switched out the light and opened the study door softly. Up the stairs they fled, as quietly asIndians, their hearts thumping so loudly that it seemed as if everyone in the house must hear the beat.
The girls got safely to their rooms and Dick was able to slip into his. But Julian was seen by Mr.
Roland as he came out of his room with a torch.
76
'What are you doing, Julian?' asked the tutor, in surprise. 'Did you hear a noise downstairs? I thoughtI did.'
'Yes - I heard quite a lot of noise downstairs,' said Julian, truthfully. 'But perhaps it's snow falling offthe roof, landing with a plop on the ground, sir. Do you think that's it?'
'I don't know,' said the tutor doubtfully. 'We'll go down and see.'
They went down, but of course, there was nothing to be seen. Julian was glad they had been able toshut the panel and make the stone come back to its proper place again. Mr. Roland was the very lastperson he wanted to tell his secret to.
They went upstairs and Julian slipped into his room. 'Is it all right?' whispered Dick.
'Yes,' said Julian. 'Don't let's talk. Mr. Roland's awake, and I don't want him to suspect anything.'
The boys fell asleep. When they awoke in the morning, there was a completely white world outside.
Snow covered everything and covered it deeply. Timothy's kennel could not be seen!
But there were footmarks round about it.
George gave a squeal when she saw how deep the snow was. 'Poor Timothy! I'm going to get him in.
I don't care what anyone says! I won't let him be buried in the snow!'
She dressed and tore downstairs. She went out to the kennel, floundering knee deep in the snow.
But there was no Timmy there!
A loud bark from the kitchen made her jump. Joanna the cook knocked on the kitchen window.
'It's all right! I couldn't bear the dog out there in the snow, so I fetched him in, poor thing. Yourmother says I can have him in the kitchen but you're not to come and see him.'
'Oh, good - Timmy's in the warmth!' said George, gladly. She yelled to Joanna, 'Thanks awfully!
You are kind!'
She went indoors and told the others. They were very glad. 'And I've got a bit of news for you'
said Dick. 'Mr. Roland is in bed with a bad cold, so there are to be no lessons today. Cheers!'
'Golly, that is good news,' said George, cheering up tremendously. 'Timmy in the warm kitchen andMr. Roland kept in bed. I do feel pleased!'
'We shall be able to explore the Secret Way safely now,' said Julian. 'Aunt Fanny is going to dosomething in the kitchen this morning with Joanna, and Uncle is going to tackle the snow. I vote wesay we'll do lessons by ourselves in the sitting-room, and then, when everything is safe, we'll explorethe Secret Way!'
'But why must we do lessons?' asked George in dismay.
77
'Because if we don't, silly, we'll have to help your father dig away the snow,' said Julian.
So, to his uncle's surprise, Julian suggested that the four children should do lessons by themselves inthe sitting-room. 'Well, I thought you'd like to come and help dig away the snow,'
said Uncle Quentin. 'But perhaps you had better get on with your work.'
The children sat themselves down as good as gold in the sitting-room, their books before them.
They heard Mr. Roland coughing in his room. They heard their aunt go into the kitchen and talk toJoanna. They heard Timmy scratching at the kitchen door - then paws pattering down the passage -then a big, inquiring nose came round the door, and there was old Timmy, looking anxiously for hisbeloved mistress!
'Timmy!' squealed George, and ran to him. She flung her arms round his neck and hugged him.
'You act as if you hadn't seen Tim for a year,' said Julian.
'It seems like a year,' said George. 'I say, there's my father digging away like mad. Can't we go to thestudy now? We ought to be safe for a good while.'
They left the sitting-room and went to the study. Julian was soon pulling the handle behind the secretpanel. George had already turned back the rug and the carpet. The stone slid downward andsideways. The Secret Way was open!
'Come on!' said Julian. 'Hurry!'
He jumped down into the hole. Dick followed, then Anne, then George. Julian pushed them all intothe narrow, low passage. Then he looked up. Perhaps he had better pull the carpet and rug over thehole, in case anyone came into the room and looked around. It took him a few seconds to do it. Thenhe bent down and joined the others in the passage. They were going to explore the Secret Way at last!
14.





























































Chapter Fifteen AN EXCITING JOURNEY AND HUNT
Chapter Fifteen AN EXCITING JOURNEY AND HUNT
TIMOTHY had leapt down into the hole when George had jumped. He now ran ahead of thechildren, puzzled at their wanting to explore such a cold, dark place. Both Julian and Dick hadtorches, which threw broad beams before them.
78
There was not much to be seen. The Secret Way under the old house was narrow and low, so that thechildren were forced to go in single file, and to stoop almost double. It was a great relief to themwhen the passage became a little wider, and the room a little higher. It was very tiring to stoop all thetime.
'Have you any idea where the Secret Way is going?' Dick asked Julian. 'I mean - is it going towardsthe sea, or away from it?'
'Oh, not towards the sea!' said Julian, who had a very good sense of direction. 'As far as I can makeout the passage is going towards the common. Look at the walls - they are rather sandy in places, andwe know the common has sandy soil. I hope we shan't find that the passage has fallen in anywhere.'
They went on and on. The Secret Way was very straight, though occasionally it would round a rockypart in a curve.
'Isn't it dark and cold,' said Anne, shivering. 'I wish I had put on a coat. How many miles have wecome, Julian?'
'Not even one, silly!' said Julian. 'Hallo - look here -the passage has fallen in a bit there!'
Two bright torches shone in front of them and the children saw that the sandy roof had fallen in.
Julian kicked at the pile of sandy soil with his foot.
'It's all right,' he said. 'We can force our way through easily. It isn't much of a fall, and it's mostlysand. I'll do a bit of kicking!'
After some trampling and kicking, the roof-fall no longer blocked the way. There was now enoughroom for the children to climb over it, bending their heads low to avoid knocking them against thetop of the passage. Julian shone his torch forward, and saw that the way was clear.
'The Secret Way is very wide just here!' he said suddenly, and flashed his torch around to show theothers.
'It's been widened out to make a sort of little room,' said George. 'Look, there's a kind of bench at theback, made out of the rock. I believe it's a resting-place.'
George was right. It was very tiring to creep along the narrow passage for so long. The little wideplace with its rocky bench, made a very good resting-place. The four tired children, cold but excited,huddled together on the queer seat and took a welcome rest. Timmy put his head on George's knee.
He was delighted to be with her again.
79
'Well, come on,' said Julian, after a few minutes. 'I'm getting awfully cold. I do wonder where thispassage comes out!'
'Julian - do you think it could come out at Kirrin Farm-house?' asked George, suddenly. 'You knowwhat Mrs. Sanders said - that there was a secret passage leading from the Farmhouse somewhere.
Well, this may be the one - and it leads to Kirrin Cottage!'
'George, I believe you're right!' said Julian. 'Yes - the two houses belonged to your family years ago!
And in the old days there were often secret passages joining houses, so it's quite plain this secret wayjoins them up together! Why didn't I think of that before?'
I say!' squealed Anne, in a high, excited voice, 'I say! I've thought of something too!'
'What?' asked everyone.
'Well - if those two artists have got Uncle's papers, we may be able to get them away before the mencan send them off by post, or take them away themselves!' squeaked Anne, so thrilled with her ideathat she could hardly get the words out quickly enough. 'They're prisoners at the Farmhouse becauseof the snow, just as we were at the Cottage.'
'Anne! You're right!' said Julian.
'Clever girl!' said Dick.
'I say - if we could get those papers again - how wonderful it would be!' cried George. Timmy joinedin the general excitement, and jumped up and down in joy. Something had pleased the children, so hewas pleased too!
'Come on!' said Julian, taking Anne's hand. 'This is thrilling. If George is right, and this Secret Waycomes out at Kirrin Farmhouse somewhere, we'll somehow hunt through those men's rooms and findthe papers.'
'You said that searching people's rooms was a shocking thing to do,' said George.
'Well, I didn't know then all I know now,' said Julian. 'We're doing this for your father - and maybefor our country too, if his secret formula is valuable. We've got to set our wits to work now, to outwitdangerous enemies.'
'Do you really think they are dangerous?' asked Anne, rather afraid.
'Yes, I should think so,' said Julian. 'But you needn't worry, Anne, You've got me and Dick and Timto protect you.'
'I can protect her too,' said George, indignantly. Im as good as a boy any day!'
'Yes, you are, really,' said Dick. 'In fact, you're fiercer than any boy I know!'
80
'Come on,' said Julian, impatiently. Im longing to get to the end of this passage.'
They all went on again, Anne following behind Julian, and Dick behind George. Timmy ran up anddown the line, squeezing by them whenever he wanted to. He thought it was a very peculiar way tospend a morning!
Julian stopped suddenly, after they had gone a good way. 'What's up?' asked Dick, from the back.
'Not another roof-fall, I hope!'
'No - but I think we've come to the end of the passage!' said Julian, thrilled. The others crowded asclose to him as they could. The passage certainly had come to an end. There was a rocky wall in frontof them, and set firmly in it were iron staples intended for footholds. These went up the wall andwhen Julian turned his torch upwards, the children saw that there was a square opening in the roof ofthe passage.
'We have to climb up this rocky wall now,' said Julian, 'go through that dark hole there, keep onclimbing - and goodness knows where we come out! I'll go first. You wait here, everyone, and I'llcome back and tell you what I've seen.'
The boy put his torch between his teeth, and then pulled himself up by the iron staples set in the wall.
He set his feet on them, and then climbed up through the square dark hole, feeling for the staples ashe went.
He went up for a good way. It was almost like going up a chimney shaft, he thought. It was cold andsmelt musty.
Suddenly he came to a ledge, and he stepped on to it. He took his torch from his teeth and flashed itaround him.
There was stone wall behind him, at the side of him and stone above him. The black hole up whichhe had come yawned by his feet. Julian shone his torch in front of him, and a shock of surprise wentthrough him.
There was no stone wall in front of him, but a big wooden, door, made of black oak. A handle was setabout waist-high, Julian turned it with trembling fingers. What was he going to see?
The door opened outwards, over the ledge, and it was difficult to get round it without falling backinto the hole. Julian managed to open it wide, squeezed round it without losing his footing, andstepped beyond it, expecting to find himself in a room.
81
But his hand felt more wood in front of him! He shone his torch round, and found that he was upagainst what looked like yet another door. Under his searching fingers it suddenly moved sideways,and slid silently away!
And then Julian knew where he was! 'I'm in the cupboard at Kirrin Farmhouse - the one that has afalse back!' he thought. 'The Secret Way comes up behind it! How clever! Little did we know whenwe played about in this cupboard that not only did it have a sliding back, but that it was the entranceto the Secret Way, hidden behind it!'
The cupboard was now full of clothes belonging to the artists. Julian stood and listened. There was nosound of anyone in the room. Should he just take a quick look round, and see if those lost paperswere anywhere about?
Then he remembered the other four, waiting patiently below in the cold. He had better go and tellthem what had happened. They could all come and help in the search.
He stepped into the space behind the sliding back. The sliding door slipped across again, and Julianwas left standing on the narrow ledge, with the old oak door wide open to one side of him.
He did not bother to shut it. He felt about with his feet, and found the iron staples in the hole belowhim. Down he went, clinging with his hands and feet, his torch in his teeth again.
'Julian! What a time you've been! Quick, tell us all about it!' cried George.
'It's most terribly thrilling,' said Julian. 'Absolutely super! Where do you suppose all this leads to?
Into the cupboard at Kirrin Farmhouse - the one that's got a false back!'
'Golly! 'said Dick.
'I say!' said George.
'Did you go into the room?' cried Anne.
'I climbed as far as I could and came to a big oak door,' said Julian. 'It has a handle this side, so Iswung it wide open. Then I saw another wooden door in front of me - at least, I thought it was adoor,' I didn't know it was just the false back of that cupboard. It was quite easy to slide back and Istepped through, and found myself among a whole lot of clothes hanging in the cupboard! Then Ihurried back to tell you.'
'Julian! We can hunt for those papers now,' said George, eagerly. 'Was there anyone in the room?'
'I couldn't hear anyone,' said Julian. 'Now what I propose is this - we'll all go up, and have a huntround those two rooms. The men have the room next to the cupboard one too.'
82
'Oh good!' said Dick, thrilled at the thought of such an adventure. 'Let's go now. You go first, Ju.
Then Anne, then George and then me.'
'What about Tim?' asked George.
'He can't climb, silly,' said Julian. 'He's a simply marvellous dog, but he certainly can't climb, George.
We'll have to leave him down here.'
'He won't like that,' said George.
'Well, we can't carry him up,' said Dick. 'You won't mind staying here for a bit, will you, Tim, oldfellow?
Tim wagged his tail. But, as he saw the four children mysteriously disappearing up the wall, he puthis big tail down at once. What! Going without him? How could they?
He jumped up at the wall, and fell back. He jumped again and whined. George called down to him ina low voice.
'Be quiet, Tim dear! We shan't be long.'
Tim stopped whining. He lay down at the bottom of the wall, his ears well-cocked. This adventurewas becoming more and more peculiar!
Soon the children were on the narrow ledge. The old oak door was still wide open. Julian shone historch and the others saw the false back of the cupboard. Julian put his hands on it and it slid silentlysideways. Then the torch shone on coats and dressing-gowns!
The children stood quite still, listening. There was no sound from the room. 'I'll open the cupboarddoor and peep into the room,' whispered Julian. 'Don't make a sound!'
The boy pushed between the clothes and felt for the outer cupboard door with his hand. He found it,and pushed it slightly. It opened a little and a shaft of daylight came into the cupboard. He peepedcautiously into the room.
There was no one there at all. That was good. 'Come on!' he whispered to the others. 'The room'sempty!'
One by one the children crept out of the clothes cupboard and into the room. There was a big bedthere, a wash-stand, chest of drawers, small table and two chairs. Nothing else. It would be easy tosearch the whole room.
'Look, Julian, there's a door between the two rooms,' said George, suddenly. 'Two of us can go andhunt there and two here - and we can lock the doors that lead on to the landing, so that no one cancome in and catch us!'
83
'Good idea!' said Julian, who was afraid that at any moment someone might come in and catch themin their search. 'Anne and I will go into the next room, and you and Dick can search this one. Lockthe door that opens on to the landing, Dick, and I'll lock the one in the other room.
We'll leave the connecting-door open, so that we can whisper to one another.'
Quietly the boy slipped through the connecting-door into the second room, which was very like thefirst. That was empty too. Julian went over to the door that led to the landing, and turned the key inthe lock. He heard Dick doing the same to the door in the other room. He heaved a big sigh. Now hefelt safe!
'Anne, turn up the rugs and see if any papers are hidden there,' he said. 'Then look under the chair-cushions and strip the bed to see if anything is hidden under the mattress.'
Anne set to work, and Julian began to hunt too. He started on the chest of drawers, which he thoughtwould be a very likely place to hide things in. The children's hands were shaking, as they felt hereand there for the lost papers. It was so terribly exciting.
They wondered where the two men were. Down in the warm kitchen, perhaps. It was cold up here inthe bedrooms, and they would not want to be away from the warmth. They could not go out becausethe snow was piled in great drifts round Kirrin Farmhouse!
Dick and George were searching hard in the other room. They looked in every drawer. They strippedthe bed. They turned up rugs and carpet. They even put their hands up the big chimney-place!
'Julian? Have you found anything?' asked Dick in a low voice, appearing at the door between the tworooms.
'Not a thing,' said Julian, rather gloomily. They've hidden the papers well! I only hope they haven'tgot them on them - in their pockets, or something!'
Dick stared at him in dismay. He hadn't thought of that. 'That would be sickening!' he said.
'You go back and hunt everywhere - simply everywhere I' ordered Julian. 'Punch the pillows to see ifthey've stuck them under the pillow-case!'
Dick disappeared. Rather a lot of noise came from his room. It sounded as if he were doing a gooddeal of punching!
Anne and Julian went on hunting too. There was simply nowhere that they did not look. They eventurned the pictures round to see if the papers had been stuck behind one of them. But there wasnothing to be found. It was bitterly disappointing.
84
'We can't go without finding them,' said Julian, in desperation. 'It was such a bit of luck to get herelike this, down the Secret Way - right into the bedrooms! We simply must find those papers!'
'I say,' said Dick, appearing again, 'I can hear voices! Listen!'
All four children listened. Yes - there were men's voices - just outside the bedroom doors!
15.

































U

UU









U



































Chapter Sixteen THE CHILDREN ARE DISCOVERED
Chapter Sixteen THE CHILDREN ARE DISCOVERED
'WHAT shall we do?' whispered George. They had all tiptoed to the first room, and were standingtogether, listening.
'We'd better go down the Secret Way again,' said Julian.
'Oh no, we ...' began George, when she heard the handle of the door being turned. Whoever wastrying to get in, could not open the door. There was an angry exclamation, and then the childrenheard Mr. Wilton's voice. "Thomas! My door seems to have stuck. Do you mind if I come throughyour bedroom and see what's the matter with this handle?'
'Come right along!' came the voice of Mr. Thomas. There was the sound of footsteps going to theouter door of the second room. Then there was the noise of a handle being turned and shaken.
'What's this!' said Mr. Wilton, in exasperation. 'This won't open, either. Can the doors be locked?'
'It looks like it!' said Mr. Thomas.
There was a pause. Then the children distinctly heard a few words uttered in a low voice. 'Are thepapers safe? Is anyone after them?'
'They're in your room, aren't they?' said Mr. Thomas. There was another pause. The children lookedat one another. So the men had got the papers - and what was more, they were in the room! The veryroom the children stood in! They looked round it eagerly, racking their brains to think of some placethey had not yet explored.
'Quick! Hunt round again whilst we've time, whispered Julian. 'Don't make a noise.'
On tiptoe the children began a thorough hunt once more. How they searched! They even opened thepages of the books on the table, thinking that the papers might have been slipped in there. But theycould find nothing.
85
'Hi, Mrs. Sanders!' came Mr. Wilton's voice. 'Have you by any chance locked these two doors?
We can't get in!'
'Dear me!' said the voice of Mrs. Sanders from the stairs. 'I'll come along and see. I certainly haven'tlocked any doors!'
Once again the handles were turned, but the doors would not open. The men began to get veryimpatient.
'Do you suppose anyone is in our rooms?' Mr. Wilton asked Mrs. Sanders.
She laughed.
'Well now, sir, who would be in your rooms? There's only me and Mr. Sanders in the house, and youknow as well as I do that no one can come in from outside, for we're quite snowed up. I don'tunderstand it - the locks of the doors must have slipped.'
Anne was lifting up the wash-stand jug to look underneath, at that moment. It was heavier than shethought, and she had to let it down again suddenly. It struck the marble wash-stand with a crash, andwater slopped out all over the place!
Everyone outside the door heard the noise. Mr. Wilton banged on the door and rattled the handle.
'Who's there? Let us in or you'll be sorry! What are you doing in there?'
'Idiot, Anne!' said Dick. 'Now they'll break the door down!'
That was exactly what the two men intended to do! Afraid that someone was mysteriously in theirroom, trying to find the stolen papers, they went quite mad, and began to put their shoulders to thedoor, and heave hard. The door shook and creaked.
'Now you be careful what you're doing!' cried the indignant voice of Mrs. Sanders. The men took nonotice. There came a crash as they both tried out their double strength on the door.
'Quick! We must go!' said Julian. 'We mustn't let the men know how we got here, or we shan't be ableto come and hunt another time. Anne, George, Dick - get back to the cupboard quickly!'
The children raced for the clothes cupboard. Ill go first and help you down,' said Julian. He got outon to the narrow ledge and found the iron foot-holds with his feet. Down he went, torch held betweenhis teeth as usual.
'Anne, come next,' he called, 'And Dick, you come third, and give a hand to Anne if she wants it.
George is a good climber - she can easily get down herself.'
Anne was slow at climbing down. She was terribly excited, rather frightened, and so afraid of fallingthat she hardly dared to feel for each iron staple as she went down.
86
'Buck up, Anne!' whispered Dick, above her. 'The men have almost got the door down!'
There were tremendous sounds coming from the bedroom door. At any moment now it might breakdown, and the men would come racing in. Dick was thankful when he could begin to climb down thewall! Once they were all out, George could shut the big oak door, and they would be safe.
George was hidden among the clothes in the cupboard, waiting her turn to climb down. As she stoodthere, trying in vain to go over any likely hiding-place in her mind, her hands felt something rustly inthe pocket of a coat, she was standing against. It was a mackintosh coat, with big pockets. The littlegirl's heart gave a leap.
Suppose the papers had been left in the pocket of the coat the man had on when he took them fromMr. Roland? That was the only place the children had not searched - the pockets of the coats in thecupboard! With trembling fingers the girl felt in the pocket where the rustling was.
She drew out a sheaf of papers. It was dark in the cupboard, and she could not see if they were theones she was hunting for, or not - but how she hoped they were! She stuffed them up the front of herjersey, for she had no big pocket, and whispered to Dick:
'Can I come now?'
CRASH! The door fell in with a terrific noise, and the two men leapt into the room. They lookedround. It was empty! But there was the water spilt on the wash-stand and on the floor. Someone mustbe there somewhere!
'Look in the cupboard!' said Mr. Thomas.
George crept out of the clothes and on to the narrow ledge, beyond the place where the false back ofthe cupboard used to be. It was still hidden sideways in the wall. The girl climbed down the hole afew steps and then shut the oak door which was now above her head. She had not enough strength toclose it completely, but she hoped that now she was safe!
The men went to the cupboard and felt about in the clothes for anyone who might possibly be hidingthere. Mr. Wilton gave a loud cry.
'The papers are gone! They were in this pocket! There's not a sign of them. Quick, Thomas, we mustfind the thief and get them back!'
The men did not notice that the cupboard seemed to go farther back than usual. They stepped awayfrom it now that they were sure no one was there, and began to hunt round the room.
87
By now all the children except George were at the bottom of the hole, standing in the Secret Way,waiting impatiently for George to come down. Poor George was in such a hurry to get down that shecaught her skirt on one of the staples, and had to stand in a very dangerous position trying todisentangle it.
'Come on, George, for goodness sake!' said Julian.
Timothy jumped up at the wall. He could feel the fear and excitement of the waiting children, and itupset him. He wanted George. Why didn't she come? Why was she up that dark hole? Tim wasunhappy about her.
He threw back his head and gave such a loud and mournful howl that all the children jumpedviolently.
'Shut up, Tim!' said Julian.
Tim howled again, and the weird sound echoed round and about in a queer manner. Anne wasterrified, and she began to cry. Timothy howled again and again. Once he began to howl it wasdifficult to stop him.
The men in the bedroom above heard the extraordinary noise, and stopped in amazement.
'Whatever's that ?' said one.
'Sounds like a dog howling in the depths of the earth, said the other.
Funny!' said Mr. Wilton. 'It seems to be coming from the direction of that cupboard.'
He went over to it and opened the door. Tim chose that moment to give a specially mournful howl,and Mr. Wilton jumped. He got into the cupboard and felt about at the back. The oak door there gaveway beneath his hand, and he felt it open.
'Thomas! There's something queer here,' called Mr. Wilton. 'Bring my torch off the table.'
Tim howled again and the noise made Mr. Wilton shiver! Tim had a peculiarly horrible howl. It cameechoing up the hole, and burst out into the cupboard.
Mr. Thomas got the torch. The men shone it at the back of the cupboard, and gave an exclamation.
'Look at that! There's a door here! Where does it lead to?'
Mrs. Sanders, who had been watching everything in surprise and indignation, angry that her doorshould have been broken down, came up to the cupboard.
88
'My!' she said. 'I knew there was a false back to that cupboard - but I didn't know there was anotherdoor behind it too! That must be the entrance to the Secret Way that people used in the old days.'
'Where does it lead to?' rapped out Mr. Wilton.
'Goodness knows!' said Mrs. Sanders. 'I never took much interest in such things.'
'Come on, Thomas - we must go down,' said Mr. Wilton, shining his torch into the square black hole,and seeing the iron foot-holds set in the stone. 'This is where the thief went. He can't have got far.
We'll go after him. We've got to get those papers back!'
It was not long before the two men had swung themselves over the narrow ledge and down into thehole, feeling with their feet for the iron staples. Down they went and down, wondering where theywere coming to. There was no sound below them. Clearly the thief had got away!
George had got down at last. Tim almost knocked her over in his joy. She put her hand on his head.
'You old silly!' she said. 'I believe you've given our secret away! Quick, Ju - we must go, becausethose men will be after us in a minute. They could easily hear Tim's howling!'
Julian took Anne's hand. 'Come along, Anne,' he said. 'You must run as fast as you can. Hurry now!
Dick, keep with George.'
The four of them hurried down the dark, narrow passage. What a long way they had to go home!
If only the passage wasn't such a long one! The children's hearts were beating painfully as they madehaste, stumbling as they went.
Julian shone his light steadily in front of him, and Dick shone his at the back. Half-leading half-dragging Anne, Julian hurried along. Behind them they heard a shout.
'Look! There's a light ahead! That's the thief! Come on, we'll soon get him!'
16.




























































Chapter Seventeen GOOD OLD TIM!
Chapter Seventeen GOOD OLD TIM!
'HURRY, Anne, do hurry!' shouted Dick, who was just behind.
Poor Anne was finding it very difficult to get along quickly. Pulled by Julian and pushed by Dick, shealmost fell two or three times. Her breath came in loud pants, and she felt as if she would burst.
89
'Let me have a rest!' she panted. But there was no time for that, with the two men hurrying afterthem! They came to the piece that was widened out, where the rocky bench was, and Anne lookedlongingly at it. But the boys hurried her on.
Suddenly the little girl caught her foot on a stone and fell heavily, almost dragging Julian down withher. She tried to get up, and began to cry.
'I've hurt my foot! I've twisted it! Oh, Julian, it hurts me to walk.'
'Well, you've just got to come along, darling,' said Julian, sorry for his little sister, but knowing thatthey would all be caught if he was not firm. 'Hurry as much as you can.'
But now it was impossible for Anne to go fast. She cried with pain as her foot hurt her, and hobbledalong so slowly that Dick almost fell over her. Dick cast a look behind him and saw the light of themen's torches coming nearer and nearer. Whatever were they to do?
'I'll stay here with Tim and keep them off,' said George, suddenly. 'Here, take these papers, Dick!
I believe they're the ones we want, but I'm not sure till we get a good light to see them. I found themin a pocket of one of the coats in the cupboard.'
'Golly!' said Dick, surprised. He took the sheaf of papers and stuffed them up his jersey, just asGeorge had stuffed them up hers. They were too big to go into his trousers pockets. 'I'll stay with you,George, and let the other two go on ahead.'
'No. I want the papers taken to safety, in case they are my father's,' said George. 'Go on, Dick! I'll beall right here with Tim. I shall stay here just where the passage curves round this rocky bit. I'll makeTim bark like mad.'
'Suppose the men have got revolvers?' said Dick, doubtfully. 'They might shoot him.'
'I bet they haven't,' said George. 'Do go, Dick! The men are almost here. There's the light of theirtorch.'
Dick sped after the stumbling Anne. He told Julian what George had suggested. 'Good for George!'
said Julian. 'She really is marvellous - not afraid of anything! She will keep the men off till I get poorold Anne back.'
George was crouching behind the rocky bit, her hand on Tim's collar, waiting. 'Now, Tim!' shewhispered. 'Bark your loudest. Now!'
Timothy had been growling up till now, but at George's command he opened his big mouth andbarked. How he barked! He had a simply enormous voice, and the barks went echoing all down 90the dark and narrow passage. The hurrying men, who were near the rocky piece of the passage,stopped.
'If you come round this bend, I'll set my dog on you!' cried George.
'It's a child shouting,' said one man to another. 'Only a child! Come on!'
Timothy barked again, and pulled at his collar, He was longing to get at the men. The light of theirtorch shone round the bend. George let Tim go, and the big dog sprang joyfully round the curve tomeet his enemies.
They suddenly saw him by the light of their torch, and he was a very terrifying sight! To begin with,he was a big dog, and now that he was angry all the hairs on the back of his neck had risen up,making him look even more enormous. His teeth were bared and glinted in the torch-light.
The men did not like the look of him at all. 'If you move one step nearer I'll tell my dog to fly at you!'
shouted George. 'Wait, Tim, wait! Stand there till I give the word.'
The dog stood in the light of the torch, growling deeply. He looked an extremely fierce animal.
The men looked at him doubtfully. One man took a step forward and George heard him. At once sheshouted to Tim.
'Go for him, Tim, go for him!'
Tim leapt at the man's throat. He took him completely by surprise and the man fell to the ground witha thud, trying to beat off the dog. The other man helped.
'Call off your dog or we'll hurt him!' cried the second man.
'It's much more likely he'll hurt you!' said George, coming out from behind the rock and enjoying thefun. 'Tim, come off.'
Tim came away from the man he was worrying, looking up at his mistress as if to say 'I was havingsuch a good time! Why did you spoil it?'
'Who are you?' said the man on the ground.
I'm not answering any of your questions,' said George. 'Go back to Kirrin Farmhouse, that's myadvice to you. If you dare to come along this passage I'll set my dog on to you again - and next timehe'll do a little more damage.'
The men turned and went back the way they had come. They neither of them wanted to face Timagain. George waited until she could no longer see the light of their torch, then she bent down andpatted Timothy.
91
'Brave, good dog!' she said. 'I love you, darling Tim, and you don't know how proud I am of you!
Come along - we'll hurry after the others now. I expect those two men will explore this passage sometime tonight, and won't they get a shock when they find out where it leads to, and see who is waitingfor them!'
George hurried along the rest of the long passage, with Tim running beside her. She had Dick's torch,and it did not take her long to catch the others up. She panted out to them what had happened, andeven poor Anne chuckled in delight when she heard how Tim had flung Mr.
Wilton to the ground.
'Here we are,' said Julian, as the passage came to a stop below the hole in the study floor, 'Hallo -what's this?'
A bright light was shining down the hole, and the rug and carpet, so carefully pulled over the hole byJulian, were now pulled back again. The children gazed up in surprise.
Uncle Quentin was there, and Aunt Fanny, and when they saw the children's faces looking up at themfrom the hole, they were so astonished that they very nearly fell down the hole too!
'Julian! Anne! What in the wide world are you doing down there?' cried Uncle Quentin. He gavethem each a hand up, and the four children and Timothy were at last safe in the warm study.
How good it was to feel warm again! They got as near the fire as they could.
'Children - what is the meaning of this?' asked Aunt Fanny. She looked white and worried. 'I cameinto the study to do some dusting, and when I stood on that bit of the rug, it seemed to give waybeneath me. When I pulled it up and turned back the carpet, I saw that hole - and the hole in thepanelling too! And then I found that all of you had disappeared, and went to fetch your uncle.
What has been happening - and where does that hole lead to?'
Dick took the sheaf of papers from under his jersey and gave them to George. She took them andhanded them to her father. 'Are these the missing pages?' she asked.
Her father fell on them as if they had been worth more than a hundred times their weight in gold.
'Yes! Yes! They're the pages - all three of them! Thank goodness they're back. They took me threeyears to bring to perfection, and contained the heart of my secret formula. George, where did you getthem?'
'It's a very long story,' said George. 'You tell it all, Julian, I feel tired.'
Julian began to tell the tale. He left out nothing. He told how George had found Mr. Roland snoopingabout the study - how she had felt sure that the tutor had not wanted Timmy in the 92house because the dog gave warning of his movements at night - how George had seen him talking tothe two artists, although he had said he did not know them. As the tale went on, Uncle Quentin andAunt Fanny looked more and more amazed. They simply could not believe it all.
But after all, there were the missing papers, safely back. That was marvellous. Uncle Quentin huggedthe papers as if they were a precious baby. He would not put them down for a moment.
George told the bit about Timmy keeping the men off the escaping children. 'So you see, althoughyou made poor Tim live out in the cold, away from me, he really saved us all, and your papers too,'
she said to her father, fixing her brilliant blue eyes on him.
Her father looked most uncomfortable. He felt very guilty for having punished George and Timothy.
They had been right about Mr. Roland and he had been wrong.
'Poor George,' he said, 'and poor Timmy. I'm sorry about all that.'
George did not bear malice once anyone had owned themselves to be in the wrong. She smiled at herfather.
'It's all right,' she said. 'But don't you think that as I was punished unfairly, Mr. Roland might bepunished well and truly? He deserves it!'
'Oh, he shall be, certainly he shall be,' promised her father. 'He's up in bed with a cold, as you know. Ihope he doesn't hear any of this, or he may try to escape.'
'He can't,' said George. 'We're snowed up. You could ring up the police, and arrange for them tocome here as soon as ever they can manage it, when the snow has cleared. And I rather think thoseother two men will try to explore the secret way as soon as possible, to get the papers back.
Could we catch them when they arrive, do you think?'
'Rather!' said Uncle Quentin, though Aunt Fanny looked as if she didn't want any more excitingthings to happen! 'Now look here, you seem really frozen all of you, and you must be hungry too,because it's almost dinner-time. Go into the dining-room and sit by the fire, and Joanna shall bring usall a hot lunch. Then we'll talk about what to do.'
Nobody said a word to Mr. Roland, of course. He lay in bed, coughing now and then. George hadslipped up and locked his door. She wasn't going to have him wandering out and overhearinganything!
They all enjoyed their hot dinner, and became warm and cosy. It was nice to sit there together,talking over their adventure, and planning what to do.
93
'I will telephone to the police, of course,' said Uncle Quentin. 'And tonight we will put Timmy intothe study to give the two artists a good welcome if they arrive!'
Mr. Roland was most annoyed to find his door locked that afternoon when he took it into his head todress and go downstairs. He banged on it indignantly. George grinned and went upstairs.
She had told the other children how she had locked the door.
'What's the matter, Mr. Roland?' she asked, in a polite voice.
'Oh, it's you, George, is it?' said the tutor. 'Well, see what's the matter with my door, will you? I can'topen it.'
George had pocketed the key when she had locked the door. She answered Mr. Roland in a cheerfulvoice.
'Oh Mr. Roland, there's no key in your door, so I can't unlock it. I'll see if I can find it!'
Mr. Roland was angry and puzzled. He couldn't understand why his door was locked and the keygone. He did not guess that everyone knew about him now. Uncle Quentin laughed when Georgewent down and told him about the locked door.
'He may as well be kept a prisoner,' he said. 'He can't escape now.'
That night, everyone went to bed early, and Timmy was left in the study, guarding the hole. Mr.
Roland had become more and more angry and puzzled when his door was not unlocked. He hadshouted for Uncle Quentin, but only George had come. He could not understand it. George, of course,was enjoying herself. She made Timothy bark outside Mr. Roland's door, and this puzzled him too,for he knew that George was not supposed to see Timmy for three days. Wild thoughts raced throughhis head. Had that fierce, impossible child locked up her father and mother and Joanna, as well ashimself? He could not imagine what had happened.
In the middle of the night Timmy awoke everyone by barking madly. Uncle Quentin and the childrenhurried downstairs, followed by Aunt Fanny, and the amazed Joanna. A fine sight met their eyes!
Mr. Wilton and Mr. Thomas were in the study crouching behind the sofa, terrified of Timothy, whowas barking for all he was worth! Timmy was standing by the hole in the stone floor, so that the twomen could not escape down there. Artful Timmy! He had waited in silence until the men had crept upthe hole into the study, and were exploring it, wondering where they were - and then the dog hadleapt to the hole to guard it, preventing the men from escaping.
94
'Good evening, Mr. Wilton, good evening, Mr. Thomas', said George, in a polite voice. 'Have youcome to see our tutor Mr. Roland?'
'So this is where he lives!' said Mr. Wilton. 'Was it you in the passage today?
'Yes - and my cousins,' said George. 'Have you come to look for the papers you stole from myfather?'
The two men were silent. They knew they were caught. Mr. Wilton spoke after a moment.
'Where's Roland?'
'Shall we take these men to Mr. Roland, Uncle?' asked Julian, winking at George. 'Although it's in themiddle of the night I'm sure he would love to see them.'
'Yes,' said his uncle, jumping at once to what the boy meant to do. 'Take them up. Timmy, you gotoo.'
The men followed Julian upstairs, Timmy close at their heels. George followed too, grinning.
She handed Julian the key. He unlocked the door and the men went in, just as Julian switched on thelight. Mr. Roland was wide awake and gave an exclamation of complete amazement when he saw hisfriends.
Before they had time to say a word Julian locked the door again and threw the key to George.
'A nice little bag of prisoners,' he said. 'We will leave old Tim outside the door to guard them. It'simpossible to get out of that window, and anyway, we're snowed up if they could escape that way.'
Everyone went to bed again, but the children found it difficult to sleep after such an exciting time.
Anne and George whispered together and so did Julian and Dick. There was such a lot to talk about.
Next day there was a surprise for everyone. The police did arrive after all! The snow did not stopthem, for somewhere or other they had got skis and had come skimming along valiantly to see theprisoners! It was a great excitement for everyone.
'We won't take the men away, sir, till the snow has gone,' said the Inspector. 'We'll just put thehandcuffs on them, so that they don't try any funny tricks. You keep the door locked too, and that dogoutside. They'll be safe there for a day or two. We've taken them enough food till we come backagain. If they go a bit short, it will serve them right!'
The snow melted two days later, and the police took away Mr. Roland and the others. The childrenwatched them go.
95
'No more lessons these holls!' said Anne gleefully.
'No more shutting Timothy out of the house,' said George.
'You were right and we were wrong, George,' said Julian. 'You were fierce, weren't you? - but it's ajolly good thing you were!'
'She is fierce, isn't she?' said Dick, giving the girl a sudden hug. 'But I rather like her when she'sfierce, don't you, Julian? Oh George, we do have marvellous adventures with you! I wonder if we'llhave any more?'
They will - there isn't a doubt of that!
THE END
17.















































































Chapter One SUMMER HOLIDAYS
Chapter One SUMMER HOLIDAYS
"George dear, do settle down and do something," said George's mother. "You keep wandering in andout with Timothy, and I am trying to have a rest.""Sorry, Mother," said Georgina, taking hold of Timothy's collar. "But I feel lonely without the others.
Oh I do wish tomorrow would come. I've been without them for three whole weeks already."Georgina went to boarding-school with her cousin Anne, and in the holidays she and Anne, andAnne's two brothers, Julian and Dick, usually joined up together and had plenty of fun. Now it wasthe summer holidays, and already three weeks had gone by. Anne, Dick and Julian had gone awaywith their father and mother, but Georgina's parents had wanted their little girl with them, so she hadnot gone.
Now her three cousins were coming the next day to spend the rest of the summer holidays with her ather old home, Kirrin cottage.
"It will be lovely when they are here," said George, as she was always called, to Timothy her dog.
"Simply lovely, Timothy. Don't you think so?""Woof," said Timothy and licked George's hand.
George was dressed, as usual, exactly like a boy, in jeans and a jersey. She had always wanted to be aboy, and would never answer if she was called Georgina. So everyone called her George.
She had missed her cousins very much during the first weeks of the summer holidays.
''I used to think I liked best to be alone,'' George said to Timothy, who always seemed to understandevery word she said. ''But now I know that was silly. It's nice to be with others and share things, andmake friends.''
Timothy thumped his tail on the ground. He certainly liked being with the other children too. He waslonging to see Julian, Anne and Dick again.
George took Timothy down to the beach. She shaded her eyes with her hand, and looked out to theentrance of the bay. In the middle of it, almost as if it were guarding it, lay a small, rocky island, onwhich rose the ruins of an old castle.
''We'll visit you again this summer, Kirrin Island,'' said George softly. ''I haven't been able to go toyou yet this summer, because my boat was being mended - but it will be ready soon, then I'll 2come to you. And I'll look all round the old castle again. Oh Tim - do you remember the adventureswe had on Kirrin Island last summer?'
Tim remembered quite well, because he himself had shared in the thrilling adventures. He had beendown in the dungeons of the castle with the others; he had helped to find treasure there, and had hadjust as grand a time as the four children he loved. He gave a little bark.
''You're remembering, aren't you, Tim?' said George, patting him. ''Won't it be fun to go there again?
We'll go down into the dungeons again, shall we? And oh! - do you remember how Dick climbeddown the deep well-shaft to rescue us?'
It was exciting, remembering all the things that had happened last year. It made George long all themore for the next day, when her three friends would arrive.
"I wish Mother would let us go and live on the island for a week," thought George. "That would bethe greatest fun we could have. To live on my very own island!"It was George's island. It really belonged to her mother, but she had said, two or three years back, thatGeorge could have it, and George now thought of it as really her own. She felt that all the rabbits onit belonged to her, all the wild birds and other creatures.
"I'll suggest that we go there for a week, when the others come," she thought, excitedly. "We'll takeour food and everything, and live there quite by ourselves. We shall feel like Robinson Crusoe."She went to meet her cousins the next day, driving the pony and trap by herself. Her mother wantedto come, but she said she did not feel very well. George felt a bit worried about her. So often latelyher mother had said she didn't feel very well. Perhaps it was the heat of the summer.
The weather had been so very hot lately. Day after day had brought nothing but blue sky andsunshine. George had been burnt a dark-brown, and her eyes were startlingly blue in her sunburntface. She had had her hair cut even shorter than usual, and it really was difficult to know whether shewas a boy or a girl.
The train came in. Three hands waved madly from a window, and George shouted in delight.
"Julian! Dick! Anne! You're here at last."The three children tumbled pell-mell out of their carriage. Julian yelled to a porter.
"Our bags are in the guard's van. Hallo, George! How are you? Golly, you've grown."They all had. They were all a year older and a year bigger than when they had had their excitingadventures on Kirrin Island. Even Anne, the youngest, didn't look such a small girl now. She 3flung herself on George, almost knocking her over, and then went down on her knees besideTimothy, who was quite mad with joy to see his three friends.
There was a terrific noise. They all shouted their news at once, and Timothy barked without stopping.
"We thought the train would never get here!""Oh Timothy, you darling, you're just the same as ever!""Woof, woof, woof!"
"Mother's sorry she couldn't come and meet you too.""George, how brown you are! I say, aren't we going to have fun.""WOOF, WOOF!"
"Shut up, Tim darling, and do get down; you've bitten my tie almost in half. Oh, you dear old dog, it'sgrand to see you!"
"WOOF!"
The porter wheeled up their luggage, and soon it was in the pony-cart. George clicked to the waitingpony, and it cantered off. The five in the little cart all talked at once at the top of their voices, Tim farmore loudly than anyone else, for his doggy voice was strong and powerful.
"I hope your mother isn't ill?" said Julian, who was fond of his Aunt Fanny. She was gentle and kind,and loved having them all.
"I think it must be the heat," said George.
"What about Uncle Quentin?" asked Anne. "Is he all right?"The three children did not very much like George's father, because he could get into very fiercetempers, and although he welcomed the three cousins to his house, he did not really care for children.
So they always felt a little awkward with him, and were glad when he was not there.
"Father's all right," said George, cheerfully. "Only he's worried about Mother. He doesn't seem tonotice her much when she's well and cheerful, but he gets awfully upset if anything goes wrong withher. So be a bit careful of him at the moment. You know what he's like when he's worried."The children did know. Uncle Quentin was best avoided when things went wrong. But not even thethought of a cross uncle could damp them today. They were on holiday; they were going to KirrinCottage; they were by the sea, and there was dear old Timothy beside them, and fun of all kinds instore for them.
4
"Shall we go to Kirrin Island, George?" asked Anne. "Do let's! We haven't been there since lastsummer. The weather was too bad in the winter and Easter holidays. Now it's gorgeous.""Of course we'll go," said George, her blue eyes shining. "Do you know what I thought? I thought itwould be marvellous to go and stay there for a whole week by ourselves! We are older now, and I'msure Mother would let us."
"Go and stay on your island for a week!" cried Anne. "Oh! That would be too good to be true.""Our island," said George, happily. "Don't you remember I said I would divide it into four, and we'dall share it? Well, I meant it, you know. It's ours, not mine.""What about Timothy?" said Anne. "Oughtn't he to have a share as well? Can't we make it five bits,one for him too?"
"He can share mine," said George. She drew the pony to a stop, and the four children and the doggazed out across the blue bay. "There's Kirrin Island," said George. "Dear little island. I can hardlywait to get to it now. I haven't been able to go there yet, because my boat wasn't mended.""Then we can all go together," said Dick. "I wonder if the rabbits are just as tame as ever.""Woof!" said Timothy at once. He had only to hear the word "rabbits" to get excited.
"It's no good your thinking about the rabbits on Kirrin," said George. "You know I don't allow you tochase them, Tim."
Timothy's tail dropped and he looked mournfully at George. It was the only thing on which he andGeorge did not agree. Tim was firmly convinced that rabbits were meant for him to chase, andGeorge was just as firmly convinced that they were not.
"Get on!" said George to the pony, and jerked the reins. The little creature trotted on towards KirrinCottage, and very soon they were all opposite the front gate.
A sour-faced woman came out from the back door to help them down with their luggage. Thechildren did not know her.
"Who's she?" they whispered to George.
"The new cook," said George. "Joanna had to go and look after her mother, who broke her leg.
Then Mother got this cook - Mrs. Stick her name is.""Good name for her," grinned Julian. "She looks a real old stick! But all the same I hope she doesn'tstick here for long. I hope Joanna comes back. I liked old fat Joanna, and she was nice to Timmy."5
"Mrs. Stick has a dog too," said George. "A dreadful animal, smaller than Tim, all sort of mangy andmoth-eaten. Tim can't bear it."
"Where is it?" asked Anne, looking round.
"It's kept in the kitchen, and Tim isn't allowed near it," said George. "Good thing too, because I'msure he'd eat it! He can't think what's in the kitchen, and goes sniffing round the shut door till Mrs.
Stick nearly goes mad."
The others laughed. They had all climbed down from the pony-cart now, and were ready to goindoors. Julian had helped Mrs. Stick in with all the bags. George took the pony-cart away, and theother three went in to say how-do-you-do to their uncle and aunt.
"Well, dears," said Aunt Fanny, smiling at them from the sofa where she was lying down. "How areyou all? I'm sorry I could not come to meet you. Uncle Quentin is out for a walk. You had better goupstairs, and wash and change. Then come down for tea."The boys went up to their old bedroom, with its queer slanting roof, and its window looking out overthe bay. Anne went to the little room she shared with George. How good it was to be back again atKirrin! What fun they would have these holidays with George and dear old Timmy!
1.






















































 






Chapter Two THE STICK FAMILY
Chapter Two THE STICK FAMILY
IT was lovely to wake up the next morning at Kirrin Cottage and see the sun shining in at thewindows, and to hear the far-off plash-plash-plash of the sea. It was gorgeous to leap out of bed andrush to see how blue the sea was, and how lovely Kirrin Island looked at the entrance of the bay.
"I'm going for a bathe before breakfast," said Julian, and snatched up his bathing trunks.
"Coming, Dick?"
"You bet!" said Dick. "Call the girls. We'll all go."So down they went, the four of them, with Tim galloping behind them, his tail wagging nineteen tothe dozen, and his long pink tongue hanging out of his mouth. He went into the water with the others,and swam all round them. They were all good swimmers, but Julian and George were the best.
6
They put towels round themselves, rubbed their bodies dry and pulled on jeans and jerseys. Thenback to breakfast they went, as hungry as hunters. Anne noticed a boy in the back garden and staredin surprise.
"Who's that?" she said.
"Oh, that's Edgar, Mrs. Stick's boy," said George. "I don't like him. He does silly things, like puttingout his tongue and calling rude names."
Edgar appeared to be singing when the others went in at the gate. Anne stopped to listen.
"Georgie-Porgie, pudding and pie!" sang Edgar, a silly look on his face. He seemed about thirteen orfourteen, a stupid, yet sly-looking youth. "Georgie-porgie pudding and pie!"George went red. "He's always singing that," she said, furiously. "Just because I'm called"George", I suppose. He thinks he's clever. I can't bear him."Julian called out to Edgar. "You shut up! You're not funny, only jolly silly!""Georgie-porgie," began Edgar again, a silly smile on his wide red face. Julian made a step towardshim, and he at once disappeared into the house.
"Shan't stand much of him," said Julian, in a decided voice. "I wonder you do, George. I wonder youhaven't slapped his face, stamped on his foot, bitten his ears off and done a few other things!
You used to be so fierce."
"Well - I am still, really," said George. "I feel frightfully fierce down inside me when I hear Edgarsinging silly songs at me like that and calling out names - but you see, Mother really hasn't been well,and I know jolly well if I go for Edgar, Mrs. Stick will leave, and poor old Mother would have to doall the work, and she really isn't fit to at present. So I just hold myself in, and hope that Timmy willdo the same."
"Good for you, old thing!" said Julian, admiringly, for he knew how hard it was for George to keepher temper at times.
"I think I'll just go up to Mother's room and see if she'd like breakfast in bed," said George.
"Hang on to old Timmy a moment, will you? If Edgar appears again, he might go for him."Julian hung on to Timmy's collar. Timmy had growled when Edgar had been in the garden, now hestood stock still, his nose twitching as if he were trying to trace some smell.
Suddenly a mangy-looking dog appeared out of the kitchen door. It had a dirty white coat, out ofwhich patches seemed to have been bitten, and its tail was well between its legs.
7
"Wooooof!" said Timmy, joyfully, and leapt at the dog. He pulled Julian over, for he was a big dog,and the boy let go his hold of the dog's collar. Timmy pounced excitedly on the other dog, who gavea fearful whine and tried to go into the kitchen door again.
"Timmy! Come here!" yelled Julian. But Timmy didn't hear. He was busy trying to snap off the otherdog's ears - or at least, that is what he appeared to be doing. The other dog yelled for help, and Mrs.
Stick appeared at the kitchen door, a saucepan in her hand.
"Call off that dog!" she screeched. She hit out at Timmy with the saucepan, but he dodged and it hither own dog instead, making it yelp all the more.
"Don't hit out with that!" said Julian. "You'll hurt the dogs. Hi, Timmy, TIMMY!"Edgar now appeared, looking very scared. He picked up a stone and seemed to be watching hischance to hurl it at Timmy. Anne shrieked.
"You're not to throw that stone; you're not to! You bad wicked boy!"In the middle of all this turmoil Uncle Quentin appeared, looking angry and irritable.
"Good heavens! What is all this going on? I never heard such a row in my life."Then George appeared, flying out of the door like the wind, to rescue her beloved Timothy. Sherushed to the two dogs and tried to pull Timmy away. Her father yelled at her.
"Come away, you little idiot! Don't you know better than to separate two fighting dogs with your barehands? Where's the garden hose?"
It was fixed to a tap nearby. Julian ran to it and turned on the tap. He picked up the hose and turned iton the two dogs. At once the jet of water spurted out at them, and they leapt apart in surprise. Juliansaw Edgar standing near, and couldn't resist swinging the hose a little so that the boy was soaked. Hegave a scream and ran in at once. .
"What did you do that for?" said Uncle Quentin, annoyed. "George, tie Timothy up at once. Mrs.
Stick didn't I tell you not to let your dog out of the kitchen unless you had him on a lead? I won'thave this kind of thing happening. Where's the breakfast? Late as usual!"Mrs. Stick disappeared into the kitchen, muttering and grumbling, taking her drenched dog with her.
George, looking sulky, tied Timothy up. He lay down in his kennel, looking beseechingly at hismistress.
"I've told you not to take any notice of that mangy-looking dog," said George, severely. "Now yousee what happens! You put Father into a bad temper for the rest of the day, and Mrs. Stick will be soangry she won't make any cakes for tea!"
8
Timmy gave a whine, and put his head down on his paws. He licked a few hairs from the corner ofhis mouth. It was sad to be tied up - but anyhow he had bitten a bit off the tip of one of that dreadfuldog's ears!
They all went in to breakfast. "Sorry I let Timmy go," said Julian to George. "But he nearly tore myarm off. I couldn't possibly hold him! He's grown into an awfully powerful dog, hasn't he?""Yes," said George, proudly. "He has. He could eat Mrs. Stick's dog up in a mouthful if we'd let him.
And Edgar too."
"And Mrs. Stick," said Anne. "All of them. I don't like any of them."Breakfast was rather a subdued meal, as Aunt Fanny was not there, but Uncle Quentin was - andUncle Quentin in a bad temper was not a very cheerful person to have at the breakfast-table. Hesnapped at George and glared at the others. Anne almost wished they hadn't come to Kirrin Cottage!
But her spirits rose when she thought of the rest of the day - they would take their dinner out,perhaps, and have it on the beach - or maybe even go out to Kirrin Island. Uncle Quentin wouldn't bewith them to spoil things.
Mrs. Stick appeared to take away the porridge plates and bring in the bacon. She banged the platesdown on the table.
"No need to do that," said Uncle Quentin, irritably. Mrs. Stick said nothing. She was scared of UncleQuentin, and no wonder! She put the next lot of plates down quietly.
"What are you going to do today?" asked Uncle Quentin, towards the end of breakfast. He wasfeeling a little better by that time, and didn't like to see such subdued faces round him.
"We thought we might go out for a picnic," said George, eagerly. "I asked Mother. She said wemight, if Mrs. Stick will make us sandwiches.""Well, I shouldn't think she'll try very hard," said Uncle Quentin, trying to make a little joke.
They all smiled politely. "But you can ask her."There was a silence. Nobody liked the idea of asking Mrs. Stick for sandwiches.
"I do wish she hadn't brought Stinker," said George, gloomily. "Everything would be easier if hewasn't here."
"Is that the name of her son?" asked Uncle Quentin, startled.
George grinned. "Oh no. Though it wouldn't be a bad name for him, because he hardly ever has abath, and he's jolly smelly. It's her dog I mean. She calls him Tinker, but I call him Stinker, becausehe really does smell awful."
9
"I don't think it's a very nice name," said her father, in the midst of the others' giggles.
"No, it isn't," said George; "but then, he isn't a very nice dog."In the end it was Aunt Fanny who saw Mrs. Stick and arranged about the sandwiches. Mrs. Stickwent up to see Aunt Fanny, who was having breakfast in bed, and agreed to make sandwiches,though with a very bad grace.
"I didn't bargain for three more children to come traipsing along," she said, sulkily.
"I told you they were coming, Mrs. Stick," said Aunt Fanny, patiently. "I didn't know I should befeeling so ill myself when they came. If I had been well I could have made their sandwiches and donemany more things. I can only ask you to help as much as you can till I feel better. I may be all righttomorrow. Let the children have a good time for a week or so, and then, if I still feel ill, I am surethey will all turn to and help a bit. But let them have a good time first."The children took their packets of sandwiches and set off. On the way they met Edgar, looking asstupid and sly as usual. "Why don't you let me come along with you?" he said. "Let's go to thatisland. I know a lot about it, I do."
"No, you don't," said George, in a flash. "You don't know anything about it. And I'd never take you.
It's my island, see? Well, ours. It belongs to all four of us and Timmy, too. We should never allowyou to go."
"Tisn't your island," said Edgar. "That's a lie, that is!""You don't know what you're talking about," said George, scornfully. "Come on, you others! Wecan't waste time talking to Edgar."
They left him, looking sulky and angry. As soon as they were at a safe distance he lifted up his voice:
"Georgie-porgie, pudding and pie,
She knows how to tell a lie,
Georgie-porgie, pudding and pie!"
Julian made as if he would go back after the rude Edgar, but George pulled him on. "He'll only goand tell tales to his mother, and she'll walk out and there'll be no one to help Mother," she said. "I'lljust have to put up with it. We'll try and think of some way to get our own back, though. Nastycreature! I hate his pimply nose and screwed-up eyes."!
"Woof!" said Timmy, feelingly.
10
"Timmy says he hates Stinker's miserable tail and silly little ears," explained George, and they alllaughed. That made them feel better. They were soon out of hearing of Edgar's silly song, and forgotall about him.
"Let's go and see if your boat is ready," said Julian. "Then maybe we could row out to the dear oldisland."
2.









- 
-


-











































-
-




Chapter Three A NASTY SHOCK
Chapter Three A NASTY SHOCK
GEORGE'S boat was almost ready, but not quite. It was having a last coat of paint on it. It lookedvery gay, for George had chosen a bright red paint, and the oars were painted red too.
"Oh, can't we possibly have it this afternoon?" said George to Jim the boatman.
He shook his head.
"No, Master George," he said, "not unless you all want to be messed up with red paint. It'll be drytomorrow, but not before."
It always made the others smile to hear the boatmen and fishermen call Georgina "Master George."The local people all knew how badly she wanted to be a boy, and they knew, too, how plucky andstraightforward she was, so they laughed to one another and said: "Well, they reckoned she behavedlike a boy, and if she wanted to be called "Master George" instead of"Miss Georgina", she deserved it!"
So Georgina was Master George, and enjoyed strutting about in her jeans and jersey on the beach,using her boat as well as any fisher-boy, and swimming faster than them all.
"We'll go to the island tomorrow then," said Julian. "We'll just picnic on the beach today. Then we'llgo for a walk."
So they picnicked on the sands with Timothy sharing more than half their lunch. The sandwicheswere not very nice. The bread was too stale; there was not enough butter inside, and they were far toothick. But Timothy didn't mind. He gobbled up as many as he could, his tail wagging so hard that itsent sand over everyone.
11
"Timothy, do take your tail out of the sand if you want to wag it," said Julian, getting sand all overhis hair for the fourth time. Timmy wagged his tail hard again, and sent another shower over him.
Everyone laughed.
"Let's go for a walk now," said Dick, jumping up. "My legs could do with some good exercise.
Where shall we go?"
"We'll walk along the cliff-top, where we can see the island all the time, shall we?" said Anne.
"George, is the old wreck still there?"
George nodded. The children had once had a most exciting time with an old wreck that had lain at thebottom of the sea. A great storm had lifted it up and set it firmly on the rocks. They had been able toexplore the wreck then, and had found a map of the castle in it, with instructions as to where hiddentreasure was to be found.
"Do you remember how we found that old map in the wreck, and how we looked for the ingots ofgold and found them?" said Julian, his eyes gleaming as he remembered it all. "Isn't the wreckbattered to pieces yet, George?"
"No," said George. "I don't think so. It's on the rocks on the other side of the island, you remember,so we can't see it from here. But we might have a look at it when we go on the island tomorrow.""Yes, let's," said Anne. "Poor old wreck! I guess it won't last many winters now."They walked along the cliff-top with Timothy capering ahead of them. They could see the islandeasily and the ruined castle rising up from the middle.
"There's the jackdaw tower," said Anne, looking. "The other tower's fallen down, hasn't it? Look atthe jackdaws circling round and round the tower, George!""Yes. They build in it every year," said George. "Don't you remember the masses of sticks roundabout the tower that the jackdaws dropped when they built their nests? We picked some up and madea fire with them once."
"I'd like to do that again," said Anne. "I would really. Let's do it each night if we stay a week on theisland. George, did you ask your mother?""Oh yes," said George. "She said she thought we might, but she would see.""I don't like it when grown-ups say they'll see," said Anne. "It so often means they won't let you dosomething after all, but they don't like to tell you at the time."12
"Well, I expect she will let us," said George. "After all, we're much older than last year. Why, Julianis in his teens already, and I soon shall be and so will Dick. Only Anne is small.""I'm not," said Anne, indignantly. "I'm as strong as you are. I can't help being younger.""Hush, hush, baby!" said Julian, patting his little sister on the back and laughing at her furious face.
"Hallo - look! What's that over there on the island?"He had caught sight of something as he was teasing Anne. Everyone swung round and gazed atKirrin. George gave an exclamation.
"Golly - a spire of smoke! Surely it's smoke! Someone's on my island.""On our island," corrected Dick. "It can't be! That smoke must come from a steamer out beyond theisland. We can't see it, that's all. But I bet the smoke comes from a steamer. We know no one can getto the island but us. They don't know the way.""If anyone's on my island," began George, looking very fierce and angry, "if anyone's on my island,I'll - I'll - I'll . . ."
"You'll explode and go up in smoke!" said Dick. "There - it's gone now. I'm sure it was only asteamer letting off steam or smoking hard, whatever they do."They watched Kirrin Island for some time after that, but they could see no more smoke. "If only myboat was ready!" said George, restlessly. "I'd go over this afternoon. I've a good mind to go and getmy boat, even if the paint is wet."
"Don't be an idiot!" said Julian. "You know what an awful row we'd get into if we go home with allour things bright red. Have a bit of sense, George."George gave up the idea. She watched for a steamer to appear at one side of the island or another, tocome into the bay, but none came.
"Probably anchored out there," said Dick. "Come on! Are we going to stand rooted to this spot for therest of the day?"
"We'd better get back home," said Julian, looking at his wrist-watch. "It's almost tea-time. I hopeyour mother is up, George. It's much nicer when she's at meals.""Oh, I expect she will be," said George. "Come on, then let's go back!"They turned to go back. They watched Kirrin Island as they walked, but all they could see wasjackdaws or gulls in the sky above it. No more spires of smoke appeared. It must have been asteamer!
13
"All the same, I'm going over tomorrow to have a look," said George, firmly. "If any trippers arevisiting my island I'll turn them off."
"Our island," said Dick. "George, I wish you'd remember you said you'd share it with us.""Well - I did share it out with you," said George, "but I can't help feeling it's still my island.
Come on! I'm getting hungry."
They came back at last to Kirrin Cottage. They went into the hall, and then into the sitting-room.
To their great surprise Edgar was there, reading one of Julian's books.
"What are you doing here?" said Julian. "And who told you you could borrow my book?""I'm not doing any harm," said Edgar. "If I want to have a quiet read, why shouldn't I?""You wait till my Father comes in and finds you lolling about here," said George. "My goodness, ifyou'd gone into his study, you'd have been sorry.""I've been in there," said Edgar, surprisingly. "I've seen those funny instruments he's working with.""How dare you!" said George, going white with rage "Why, even we are not allowed to go into myFather'; study. As for touching his things - well!"Julian eyed Edgar curiously. He could not imagine why the boy should suddenly be so insolent.
"Where's your father, George?" he said. "I think we had better get him to deal with Edgar. He mustbe mad."
"Call him if you like," said Edgar, still lolling in the chair, and flicking over the pages of Julian'sbook in a most irritating way. "He won't come.""What do you mean?" said George, feeling suddenly scared. "Where's my mother?""Call her too, if you like," said the boy, looking sly. "Go on! Call her."The children suddenly felt afraid. What did Edgar mean? George flew upstairs to her mother's room,shouting loudly.
"Mother! Mother! Where are you?"
But her mother's bed was empty. It had not been made - but it was empty. George flew into all theother bedrooms, shouting desperately: "Mother! Mother! Father! Where are you?"But there was no answer. George ran downstairs, her face very white. Edgar grinned up at her.
"What did I tell you?" he said. "I said you could call all you liked, but they wouldn't come.""Where are they?" demanded George. "Tell me at once!""Find out yourself," said Edgar.
14
There was a resounding slap, and Edgar leapt to his feet, holding his left cheek with his hand.
George had flown at him and dealt him the hardest smack she could. Edgar lifted his hand to slap herback, but Julian stood in front.
"You're not fighting George," he said. "She's a girl. If you want a fight, I'll take you on.""I won't be a girl; I'm a boy!" shouted George, trying to push Julian away. "I'll fight Edgar, and I'llbeat him, you see if I don't."
But Julian kept her off. Edgar began to edge towards the doorway, but he found Dick there.
"One minute," said Dick. "Before you go - where are our uncle and aunt?""Gr-r-r-r-r-r-r," suddenly said Timothy, in such a threatening voice that Edgar stared at him in fright.
The dog had bared his great teeth, and had put up the hackles on his neck. He looked veryfrightening.
"Hold that dog!" said Edgar, his voice trembling. "He looks as if he's going to spring at me."Julian put his hand on Tim's collar. "Quiet, Tim!" he said. "Now, Edgar, tell us what we want toknow, and tell us quickly, or you'll be sorry.""Well, there isn't much to tell," said Edgar, keeping his eye on Timothy. He shot a look at George andwent on. "Your mother was suddenly taken very ill - with a terrible pain here - and they got thedoctor and they've taken her away to hospital, and your father went with her. That's all!"George sat down on the sofa, looking paler still and rather sick.
"Oh!" she said. "Poor Mother! I wish I hadn't gone out today. Oh dear - how can we find out what'shappened?"
Edgar had slipped out of the room, shutting the door behind him so that Timmy should not follow.
The kitchen door was slammed, too. The children stared at one another, feeling sorry and dismayed.
Poor George! Poor Aunt Fanny!
"There must be a note somewhere," said Julian, and looked round the room. He saw a letter stuck intothe rim of the big mirror there, addressed to George. He gave it to her. It was from George's father. ,"Read it, quickly," said Anne. "Oh dear - this is really a horrid beginning to our holidays here!"
3.






















1313

















































Chapter Four A FEW LITTLE UPSETS
Chapter Four A FEW LITTLE UPSETS
GEORGE read the letter out loud. It was not very long, and had evidently been written in a greathurry.
DEAR GEORGE,
Your mother has been taken very ill. I am going with her to the hospital. I shall not leave her till sheis getting better. That may be in a few days' time, or in a week's time. I will telephone you each day atnine o'clock in the morning to tell you how she is. Mrs. Stick will look after you all. Try to manageall right till I come back.
Your loving
FATHER
"Oh dear!" said Anne, knowing how dreadful George must feel. George loved her mother dearly, andfor once in a way the girl had tears in her eyes. George never cried - but it was terrible to come homeand find her mother gone like this. And Father too! No one there but Mrs. Stick and Edgar.
"I can't bear Mother going like this," sobbed George suddenly, and buried her head in a cushion.
"She - she might never come back."
"Don't be silly, George," said Julian, sitting down and putting his arm round her. "Of course she will.
Why shouldn't she? Didn't your father say he was staying with her till she was getting better- and that would be probably in a few days" time, Cheer up, George! It isn't like you to give way likethis."
"But I didn't say good-bye," sobbed poor George. "And I made her ask Mrs. Stick for the sandwiches,instead of me. I want to go and find Mother and see how she is myself.""You don't know where they've taken her, and if you did, they wouldn't let you in," said Dick, gently.
"Let's have some tea. We shall all feel better after that.""I couldn't eat anything," said George, fiercely. Timothy pushed his nose into her hands, and tried tolick them. They were under her buried face. The dog whined a little.
"Poor Timmy! He can't understand," said Anne. "He's awfully upset because you are unhappy,George."
16
That made George sit up. She rubbed her hands over her eyes, and let Timmy lick the wet tears offthem. He looked surprised at the salty taste. He tried to get on to George's knee.
"Silly Timmy!" said George, in a more ordinary voice. "Don't be upset. I just got a shock, that's all!
I'm better now, Timmy. Don't whine like that, silly! I'm all right. I'm not hurt."But Timothy felt certain George was really hurt or injured in some way to cry like that, and he keptwhining, and pawing at George, and trying to get on to her knee.
Julian opened the door. "I'm going to tell Mrs. Stick we want our tea," he said, and went out. Theothers thought he was rather brave to face Mrs. Stick.
Julian went to the kitchen door and opened it. Edgar was sitting there, one side of his face scarlet,where George had slapped it. Mrs. Stick was there, looking grim,"If that girl slaps my Edgar again I'll be after her," she said, threateningly.
"Edgar deserved what he got," said Julian, "Can we have some tea, please?""I've a good mind to get you none," said Mrs. Stick. Her dog started up from its corner and growledat Julian. "That's right, Tinker! You growl at folks that slap Edgar, said Mrs. Stick.
Julian was not in the least afraid of Tinker. "If you are not going to get us any tea, I'll get it myself,"said the boy. "Where is the bread, and where are the cakes?"Mrs. Stick stared at Julian, and the boy looked back at her steadfastly. He thought she was a mostunpleasant woman, and he certainly was not going to allow her to get the better of him. He wished hecould tell her to go - but he had a feeling that she wouldn't, so it would be a waste of his breath.
Mrs. Stick dropped her eyes first. "I'll get your tea," she said, "but if I've any nonsense from you I'llget you no other meals."
"And if I have any nonsense from you I shall go to the police," said Julian, unexpectedly. He hadn'tmeant to say that. It came out quite suddenly, but it had a surprising effect on Mrs. Stick.
She looked startled and alarmed.
"Now, there's no call to be nasty," she said in a much more polite voice. "We've all had a bit of ashock, and we're upset, like - I'll get you your tea right now."Julian went out. He wondered why his sudden threat of going to the police had made Mrs. Stick somuch more polite. Perhaps she was afraid the police would get on to his Uncle Quentin and"he would come tearing back. Uncle Quentin wouldn't care for a hundred Mrs. Sticks!
He went back to the others. "Tea's coming," he said. "So cheer up, everyone!"17
It wasn't a very cheerful company that sat down to the tea Mrs. Stick brought in. George was nowfeeling ashamed of her tears. Anne was still upset. Dick tried to make a few silly jokes to cheereveryone up, but they fell so flat that he soon gave it up. Julian was grave and helpful, suddenly verygrown-up.
Timothy sat close beside George, his head on her knee. "I do wish I had a dog who loved me likethat," thought Anne. Timmy kept gazing up at George out of big brown devoted eyes. He had no eyesor ears for anyone but his little mistress now she was sad.
Nobody noticed what they had for tea, but all the same it did them good, and they felt better after it.
They didn't like to go out to the beach afterwards in case the telephone bell rang, and there was newsof George's mother. So they sat about in the garden, keeping an ear open for the telephone.
From the kitchen came a song.
"Georgie-porgie, pudding and pie,
Sat herself down and had a good cry,
Georgie-porgie . . ."
Julian got up. He went to the kitchen window and looked in. Edgar was there alone.
"Come on out here, Edgar!" said Julian, in a grim voice. I'll teach you to sing another song.
Come along!"
Edgar didn't stir. "Can't I sing if I want to?" he said.
"Oh yes," said Julian, "but not that song. I'll teach you another. Come along out!""No fear," said Edgar. "You want to fight me.""Yes, I do," said Julian. "I think a little bit of good honest fighting would be better for you than sittingsinging nasty little songs about a girl who is miserable. Are you coming out? Or shall I come in andfetch you?"
"Ma!" called Edgar, suddenly feeling panicky. "Ma! Where are you?"Julian suddenly reached a long arm in at the window, caught hold of Edgar's over-long nose, andpulled it so hard that Edgar yelled in pain.
"Led go! Led go! You're hurding me! Led go by dose!"Mrs. Stick came hurrying into the kitchen. She gave a scream when she saw what Julian was doing.
She flew at him. Julian withdrew his arm, and stood outside the window.
18
"How dare you!" yelled Mrs. Stick. "First that girl slaps Edgar, and then you pull his nose!
What's the matter with you all?"
"Nothing," said Julian, pleasantly; "but there's an awful lot wrong with Edgar, Mrs. Stick. We feel wejust must put it right. It should be your job, of course, but you don't seem to have done it.""You're downright insolent," said Mrs. Stick, outraged and furious.
"Yes, I dare say I am," said Julian. "It's just the effect Edgar has on me. Stinker has the same effect.""Stinker!" cried Mrs. Stick, getting angrier still. "That's not my dog's name, and well you know it.""Well, it really ought to be," said Julian, strolling off. "Give him a bath, and maybe we'll call himTinker instead."
Leaving Mrs. Stick muttering in fury, he went back to the others. They stared at him curiously.
He somehow seemed a different Julian - a grim and determined Julian, a very grown-up Julian, arather frightening Julian.
"I'm afraid the fat's in the fire now," said Julian, sitting down on the grass. "I pulled old Edgar's nosenearly off his fat face, and Ma saw me doing it. I guess it's open warfare now! We shan't have a verymerry time from now on. I doubt if we'll get any meals.""We'll get them ourselves then," said George. "I hate Mrs. Stick. I wish Joanna would come back. Ihate that horrid Edgar too, and that awful Stinker.""Look - there is Stinker!" suddenly said Dick, putting out his hand to catch Timothy, who had risenwith a growl. But Timmy shook off his hand and leapt across the grass at once. Stinker gave a woefulhowl and tried to escape. But Timothy had him by the neck and was shaking him like a rat.
Mrs. Stick appeared with a stick and lashed out, not seeming to mind which dog she hit. Julian rushedfor the hose again. Edgar skipped indoors at once, remembering what had happened to him before.
The water gushed out, and Timothy gave a gasp and let go the howling mongrel he held in his teeth.
Stinker at once hurled himself on Mrs. Stick, and tried to hide in her skirts trembling with terror.
19
"I'll poison that dog of yours!" said Mrs. Stick, furiously, to George. "Always setting on to mine.
You look out or I'll poison him."
She disappeared indoors, and the four children went and sat down again. George looked reallyalarmed. "Do you suppose she really might try to poison Timmy?" she asked Julian, in a scaredvoice.
"She's a nasty bit of work," said Julian, in a low tone. "I think it would be just as well to keep oldTimmy close by us, day and night, and only to feed him ourselves, from our own plates."George pulled Timothy to her, horrified at the thought that anyone might want to poison him.
But Mrs. Stick really was awful - she might do anything like that, George thought. How she wishedher father and mother were back! It was horrid to be on their own, like this.
The telephone bell suddenly shrilled out and made everyone jump. They all leapt to their feet, andTimmy growled. George flew indoors and lifted the receiver. She heard her father's voice, and herheart began to beat fast.
"Is that you, George?" said her father. "Are you all right? I hadn't time to stay and tell youeverything."
"Father - what about Mother? Tell me quick - how is she?" said George.
"We shan't know till the day after next," said her father. "I'll telephone tomorrow morning and thenthe next morning too. I shan't come back till I know she's better.""Oh Father - it's awful without you and Mother," said poor George. "Mrs. Stick is so horrid.""Now, George," said her father, rather impatiently, "surely you children can see to yourselves andmake do with Mrs. Stick till I get back! Don't worry me about such things now. I've enough worry asit is."
"When will you be back, do you think?" said George. "Can I come and see Mother?""No," said her father. "Not for at least two weeks, they say. I'll be back as soon as I can. But I'm notgoing to leave your Mother now. She needs me. Good-bye and be good, all of you."George put back the receiver. She turned to face the others. "Shan't know about Mother till the dayafter next," she said. "And we've got to put up with Mrs. Stick till Father comes back - and goodnessknows when that will be! It's awful, isn't it?"
4.






























--




































Chapter Five IN THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT
Chapter Five IN THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT
MRS. STICK was in such a bad temper that evening that there was no supper at all. Julian went toask about some, but he found the kitchen door locked.
He went back to the others with a gloomy face, for they were all hungry. "She's locked the door,"he said. "She really is a dreadful creature. I don't believe we'll get any supper tonight.""We'll have to wait till she goes to bed," said George. "We'll go down and hunt in the larder then, andsee what we can find."
They went to bed hungry. Julian listened for Mrs. Stick and Edgar to go to bed, too. When he heardthem going upstairs, and was sure their doors had shut, he slipped down into the kitchen. It was darkthere, and Julian was just about to put on the light when he heard the sound of someone breathingheavily. He wondered who it could be. Was it Stinker? No - it couldn't be the dog. It sounded like ahuman being.
Julian stood there, his hand over the light switch, puzzled and a little scared. It couldn't be a burglar,because burglars don't go to sleep in the house they have come to rob. It couldn't be Mrs.
Stick or Edgar. Then who was it?
He snapped on the light. The kitchen was flooded with radiance, and Julian's eyes fastened on thefigure of a small man lying on the sofa. He was fast asleep, his mouth wide open.
He was not a very pleasant sight. He had not shaved for some days, and his cheeks and chin werebluish-black. He didn't seem to have washed for even longer than that, for his hands were black, andso were his finger-nails. He had untidy hair and a nose exactly like Edgar's.
"Must be dear Edgar's father," thought Julian to himself. "What a sight! Well, poor Edgar hadn'tmuch chance to be decent with a father and mother like his."The man snored. Julian wondered what to do. He badly wanted to go to the larder, but on the otherhand he didn't particularly want to wake up the man and have a row. He didn't see how he could turnhim out - for all he knew his aunt and uncle might have agreed to Mrs. Stick's husband coming therenow and again, though he hardly thought so.
Julian was very hungry. The thought of the good things in the larder made him snap off the lightagain and creep towards the larder door in the dark. He opened the door. He felt along the 21shelves. Good! - that felt like a pie of some sort. He lifted it up and sniffed. It smelt of meat. A meat-pie - good!
He felt along the shelf again and came to a plate on which were what he thought must be jam-tarts,for they were round and flat, and had something sticky in the middle. Well, a meat-pie and jam-tartsought to be all right for four hungry children!
Julian picked up the meat-pie and the dish of tarts, and made his way carefully out of the larder.
He pushed the door to with his foot. Then he turned to go out of the room.
But in the dark he went the wrong way, and by bad luck walked straight into the sofa! The dish oftarts got a sudden jerk and one of them fell off. It landed on the open mouth of the sleeping man, andwoke him up with a start.
"Blow!" said Julian to himself, and began to back away quietly, hoping that the man would turn overand go to sleep again. But the sticky jam-tart sliding down his chin had startled the man, and he satup with a jerk.
"Who's there? That you, Edgar? What are you doing down here?"Julian said nothing but sidled towards what he hoped was the door. The man leapt up and lurchedover to where he thought the light switch was. He found it and switched it on. He stared in thegreatest astonishment at Julian.
"What are you doing here?" he demanded.
"Just what I was about to ask you? said Julian, coolly. "What do you think you're doing here, sleepingin my uncle's kitchen?"
"I've a right to be here," said the man, in a rude voice. "My wife's cook here, isn't she? My ship's inand I'm on leave. Your uncle arranged with my wife I could come here then, see?"Julian had feared as much. How awful to have a Mr. Stick as well as a Mrs. and Master Stick in thehouse! It would be quite unbearable.
"I can ask my uncle about it when he telephones in the morning," said Julian. "Now get out of myway, please. I want to go upstairs."
"Ho!" said Mr. Stick, eyeing the meat-pie and jam-tarts that Julian was carrying. "Ho! Stealing out ofthe larder, I see! Nice goings-on I must say."Julian was not going to argue with Mr. Stick, who evidently felt that he was top-dog. "Get out of myway," he said. "I will talk to you in the morning after my uncle has telephoned."22
Mr. Stick didn't seem as if he was going to get out of the way at all. He stood there, a nasty little man,not much taller than Julian, a sarcastic smile on his unshaven face.
Julian pursed up his lips and whistled. There came a bump on the floor above. That was Timothyjumping off George's bed! Then there came the pattering of feet down the stairs, and up the kitchenpassage. Timmy was coming!
He smelt Mr. Stick in the doorway, put up his hackles, bared his teeth and growled. Mr. Stick hastilyremoved himself from the doorway and then neatly banged the door in the dog's face. He grinned atJulian.
"Now what are you going to do?" he said.
"Shall I tell you?" said Julian, his temper suddenly rising. "I'm going to hurl this nice juicy meat-piestraight into your grinning face!"
He raised his arm, and Mr. Stick ducked.
"Now don't you do that," he said. "I'm only pulling your leg, see? Don't you waste that nice meat-pie.
You can go upstairs if you want to."
He moved away to the sofa. Julian opened the door and Timothy bounded in growling. Mr. Stickeyed him uncomfortably.
"Don't you let that nasty great dog come near me," he said. "I don't like dogs.""Then I wonder you don't get rid of Stinker," said Julian. "Come here, Timmy! Leave him alone.
He's not worth growling at."
Julian went upstairs with Timothy close at his heels. The others crowded round him, wondering whathad happened, for they had heard the voices downstairs. They laughed when Julian told them how hehad nearly thrown the meat-pie at Mr. Stick.
"It would have served him right," said Anne, "though it would have been a great pity, because weshouldn't have been able to eat it. Well, Mrs. Stick may be simply horrible, but she can cook.
This pie is gorgeous."
The children finished all the pie and the tarts, too. Julian told them all about Mr. Stick coming onleave from his ship.
"Three Sticks are a lot too much," said Dick thoughtfully. "Pity we can't get rid of them all andmanage for ourselves. George, can't you possibly persuade your father tomorrow to let us get rid ofthe Sticks and look after ourselves?"
23
"I'll try," said George. "But you know what he is like - awfully difficult to argue with. But I'll try.
Golly, I'm sleepy now. Come on, Timmy, let's get to bed! Lie on my feet. I'm hardly going to let youout of my sight now, in case those awful Sticks poison you!"Soon the four children, now no longer hungry, were sleeping peacefully. They did not fear the Stickscoming up to their rooms, for they knew that Timmy would wake and warn them at once.
Timmy was the best guard they could have.
In the morning Mrs. Stick actually produced some sort of breakfast, which surprised the children verymuch. "Guess she knows your father will telephone, George," said Julian, "and she wants to keepherself in the right. When did he say he would "phone? Nine o'clock, wasn't it? Well, it's half-pasteight now. Let's go for a quick run down to the beach and back."So off they went, the five of them, ignoring Edgar, who stood in the back garden ready to make someof his silly faces at them. The children couldn't help thinking he must be a bit mad. He didn't behaveat all like a boy of Julian's age.
When they came back it was about ten minutes to nine. "We'll sit in the sitting-room till the telephonerings," said Julian. "We don't want Mrs. Stick to answer it first."But to their great dismay, as they reached the house, they heard Mrs. Stick using the telephone in thehall!
"Yes, sir," they heard her say, "everything is quite all right. I can manage the children, sir, even ifthey do make things a bit difficult. Yes, sir. Of course, sir. Well, sir, it's lucky my husband is home onleave from his ship, sir, because he can help me round, like, and it makes things easier.
Don't you worry about anything, sir, and don't you bother to come back till you're ready. I'll manageeverything."
George flew into the hall like a wild thing, and snatched the receiver out of Mrs. Stick's hand.
"Father! It's me, George! How's Mother? Tell me quick!""No worse, George," said her father's voice. "But we shan't know anything definite till tomorrowmorning. I'm glad to hear from Mrs. Stick that everything is all right. I'm very upset and worried, andI'm glad to feel I can tell your Mother that you are all right, and everything is going smoothly atKirrin Cottage."
"But it isn't," said George, wildly. "It isn't. It's all horrid. Can't the Sticks go and let us manage thingsby ourselves?"
24
"Good gracious me, of course not," said her father's voice, surprised and annoyed. "What can you bethinking of? I did hope, George, that you would be sensible and helpful. I must say...""You talk to him, Julian," said George, helplessly, and thrust the receiver into Julian's hand. The boyput it to his ear and spoke into the telephone in his clear voice.""Good morning, sir. This is Julian! I'm glad my aunt is no worse.""Well, she will be if she thinks things are going wrong at Kirrin Cottage," said Uncle Quentin, in anexasperated voice. "Can't you manage George and make her see reason? Good gracious, can't she putup with the Sticks for a week or two? I tell you frankly, Julian, I am not going to sack the Sticks inmy absence - I want the house ready for me to bring back your aunt. If you can't put up with them,you had better find out from your own parents if they can take you back for the rest of the holidays.
But George is not to go with you. She is to stay at Kirrin Cottage. That's my last word on thesubject."
"But, sir," began Julian, wondering how in the world he could deal properly with his hot-tempereduncle, "I must tell you that . . ."
There was a click at the other end of the "phone. Uncle Quentin had put down his receiver and gone.
There was no more to be said. Blow! Julian pursed up his mouth and looked round at the others,frowning.
"He's gone!" he said. "Cut me off just as I was trying to reason with him.""Serves you right!" said Mrs. Stick's harsh voice from the end of the hall. "Now you know where youstand. I'm here and I'm staying here, on your uncle's orders. And you're all going to behaveyourselves, or it'll be the worse for you."
5.






























































Chapter Six JULIAN DEFEATS THE STICKS
Chapter Six JULIAN DEFEATS THE STICKS
THERE was a slam. The kitchen door shut, and Mrs. Stick could be heard telling the newstriumphantly to Edgar and Mr. Stick. The children went into the sitting-room, sat down and stared atone another gloomily.
"Father's awful!" said George, furiously. "He never will listen to anything."25
"Well, after all, he is very upset," said Dick, reasonably. "It was a great pity that he rang before nine,so that Mrs. Stick got her say in first.""What did Father say to you?" said George. "Tell us exactly.""He said that if we couldn't put up with the Sticks, Anne and Dick and I were to go back to our ownparents," said Julian. "But you were to stay here."George stared at Julian. "Well," she said at last, "you can't put up with the Sticks, so you'd better allgo back. I can look after myself."
"Don't be an idiot!" said Julian, giving her arm a friendly shake, "You know we wouldn't desert you.
I can't say I look forward to the idea of being under the thumb of the amiable Sticks for a week ortwo, but there are worse things than that. We'll "stick" it together."But the feeble little joke didn't raise a smile, even from Anne. The idea of being under the Sticks"three thumbs was a most unpleasant prospect. Timothy put his head on George's knee.
She patted him and looked round.
"You go back home," she said to the others. "I've got a plan of my own, and you're not in it. I've gotTimmy, and he'll look after me. Telephone to your parents and go home tomorrow."George stared round defiantly. Her head was up, and there was no doubt but that she had made a planof some sort.
Julian felt uneasy.
"Don't be silly," he said. "I tell you we all stand together in this. If you've got a plan, we'll come intoit. But we're staying here with you, whatever happens.""Stay if you like," said George, "but my plan goes on, and you'll find you'll have to go home in theend. Come on, Timothy! Let's go to Jim and see if my boat is ready.""We'll go with you," said Dick. He was sorry for George. He could see below her defiance, and heknew she was very unhappy, worried about her mother, angry with her father, and upset because shefelt the others were staying on because of her, when they could go back home and have a lovely time.
It was not a happy day. George was very stand-offish, and kept on insisting that the others should goback home and leave her. She grew quite angry when they were as insistent that they would not.
"You're spoiling my plan," she said at last. "You might go back, you really might. I tell you, you'respoiling my plan completely."
26
"Well, what is your plan?" said Julian impatiently. "I can't help feeling you're just pretending you'vegot a plan, so that we'll go."
"I'm not pretending," said George, losing her temper. "Do I ever pretend? You know I don't! If I sayI've got a plan, I have got a plan. But I'm not giving it away, so it's no good asking me. It's my ownsecret, private plan."
"Well, I really do think you might tell us," said Dick, quite hurt. "After all, we're your best friends,aren't we? And we're going to stick by you, plan or no plan - yes, even if we spoil your plan, as yousay, we shall still stay here with you."
"I shan't let you spoil my plan," said George, her eyes flashing. "You're mean. You're against me, justlike the Sticks are."
"Oh, George, don't," said Anne, almost in tears. "Don't let's quarrel. It's bad enough quarrelling withthose awful Sticks, without us quarrelling too."George's temper died down as quickly as it had risen. She looked ashamed.
"Sorry!" she said. "I'm an idiot. I won't quarrel. But I do mean what I say. I shall go on with my plan,and I shan't tell you what it is, because if I do, it will spoil the holidays for you. Please believe me.""Let's take our dinner out with us again," said Julian, getting up. "We'll all feel better away from thishouse today. I'll go and tackle the old Stick.""Dear old Ju, isn't he brave!" said Anne, who would rather have died than go and face Mrs. Stick atthat moment.
Mrs. Stick proved very difficult. She felt rather victorious at the time, and was also very annoyed tofind that her beautiful meat-pie and jam-tarts had disappeared. Mr. Stick was in the middle of tellingher where they had gone when Julian appeared.
"How you can expect sandwiches for a picnic when you've stolen my meat-pie and jam-tarts, I don'tknow!" she began, indignantly. "You can have dry bread and jam for your-picnic, and that's all. Andwhat's more, I wouldn't give you that either except that I'm glad to be rid of you.""Good riddance to bad rubbish," murmured Edgar to himself. He was lying sprawled on the sofa,reading some kind of highly-coloured comic paper.
"If you've anything to say to me, Edgar, come outside and say it," said Julian, dangerously.
"You leave Edgar alone," said Mrs. Stick, at once.
27
"There's nothing I should like better," said Julian, scornfully. "Who wants to be with him?
Cowardly little spotty-face!"
"Now, now, look "ere!" began Mr. Stick, from his corner.
"I don't want to look at you," said Julian at once.
"Now, look "ere," said Mr. Stick, angrily, standing up.
"I've told you I don't want to," said Julian. "You're not a pleasant sight.""Insolence!" said Mrs. Stick, rapidly losing her temper.
"No, not insolence - just the plain truth," said Julian, airily. Mrs. Stick glared at him. Julian defeatedher. He had such a ready tongue, and he said everything so politely. The ruder his words were, themore politely he spoke. Mrs. Stick didn't understand people like Julian.
She felt that they were too clever for her. She hated the boy, and banged a saucepan viciously downon the sink, wishing that it was Julian's head under the saucepan instead of the sink.
Stinker jumped up and growled at the sudden noise.
"Hallo, Stinker!" said Julian. "Had a bath yet? Alas, no! - as smelly as ever, aren't you?""You know that dog's name isn't Stinker," said Mrs. Stick, angrily. "You get out of my kitchen.""Right!" said Julian. "Pleased to go. Don't bother about the dry bread and jam. I'll manage somethinga bit better than that."
He went out, whistling. Stinker growled, and Edgar repeated loudly what he had said before:
"Good riddance to bad rubbish!"
"What did you say?" said Julian, suddenly poking his head in at the kitchen door again. But Edgar didnot dare to repeat it, so off went Julian again, whistling merrily, but not feeling nearly as merry as hiswhistle. He was worried. After all, if Mrs. Stick was going to make meals as difficult as this, life wasnot going to be very pleasant at Kirrin Cottage.
"Anyone feel inclined to have dry bread and jam for lunch?" inquired Julian, when he returned to theothers. "Not? I rather thought so, so I turned down Mrs. Stick's kind offer. I vote we go and buysomething decent. That shop in the village has good sausage-rolls."George was very silent all that day. She was worrying about her mother, the others knew. She wasprobably thinking about her plan too, they thought, and wondered whatever it could be.
"Shall we go over to Kirrin Island today?" asked Julian, thinking that it would take George's mind offher worries, if they went to her beloved island.
George shook her head.
28
"No," she said. "I don't feel like it. The boat's all ready, I know - but I just don't feel like it. You see,till I know Mother is going to get better, I don't feel I want to be out of reach of the house. If atelephone message came from Father; the Sticks could always send Edgar to look for me - and if Iwas on the island, he couldn't find me."
The children messed about that day, doing nothing at all. They went back to tea, and Mrs. Stickprovided them with bread and butter and jam, but no cake. The milk was sour too, and everyone-hadto have tea without milk, which they all disliked.
As they ate their tea, the children heard Edgar outside the window. He held a tin bowl in his hand,and put it down on the grass outside.
"Your dog's dinner," he yelled.
"He looks like a dog's dinner himself," said Dick, in disgust. "Messy creature!"That made everyone laugh. "Edgar, the Dog's Dinner!" said Anne. "Any biscuits in that tin on thesideboard, do you think, George?"
George got up to see. Timothy slipped out of doors and went to the dish put down for him. He sniffedat it. George, coming back from the sideboard, looked out of the window as she passed and saw him.
At once the thought of poison came back to her mind and she yelled to Timothy, making the othersjump out of their skins.
TIM! TIM! Don't touch it!"
Timothy wagged his tail as if to say he didn't mean to touch it, anyway. George rushed out of doors,and picked up the mess of raw meat. She sniffed at it.
"You haven't touched it, have you, Timothy?" she said, anxiously.
Dick leaned out of the window.
. "No, he didn't eat any. I watched him. He sniffed all round and about it, but he wouldn't touch it. Ibet it's been dosed with rat-poison or something."George was very white. "Oh Timmy!" she said. "You're such a sensible dog. You wouldn't touchpoisoned stuff, would you?"
"Woof!" said Timmy, decidedly. Stinker heard the bark and put his nose out of the kitchen door.
George called to him in a loud voice:
"Stinker, Stinker, come here! Timmy doesn't want his dinner. You can have it. Come along, Stinker,here it is!"
Edgar came rushing out behind Stinker. "Don't you give that to him," he said.
29
"Why not?" asked George. "Go on, Edgar - tell me why not.""He don't eat raw meat," said Edgar, after a pause. "He only eats dog biscuits.""That's a lie!" said George, flaming up. "I saw him eating meat yesterday. Here, Stinker - you comeand eat this."
Edgar snatched the bowl from George, almost snarling at her, and ran indoors at top speed.
George was about to go after him, but Julian, who had jumped out of the window when Edgar cameup, stopped her.
"No good, old thing!" he said. "You won't get anything out of him. The meat's probably at the back ofthe kitchen fire by now. From now on, we feed Timothy ourselves with meat bought from the butcherwith our own money. Don't be afraid that he'll eat poisoned stuff. He's too wise a dog for that.""He might, if he was terribly, awfully hungry, Julian," said George, looking rather green now.
She felt sick inside. "I wasn't going to let Stinker eat that poisoned stuff, of course, but I guessed thatif it was poisoned, one of the Sticks would come rushing out and stop Stinker eating it. And Edgardid. So it proves it was poisoned, doesn't it?""I rather think it does," said Julian. "But don't worry, George. Timmy won't be poisoned.""But he might, he might," said George, putting her hand on the big dog's head. "Oh, I can't bear thethought of it, Julian. I can't, I really can't.""Don't think about it then," said Julian, taking her indoors again. "Here, have a biscuit!""You don't think the Sticks would poison us, do you?" said Anne, looking suddenly scared andgazing at her biscuit as if it might bite her.
"No, idiot. They only want to get Timmy out of the way because he guards us so well," said Julian.
"Don't look so scared. All this will settle down in a day or two, and we'll have a grand time after all.
You'll see!"
But Julian only said this to comfort his little sister. Secretly he was very worried. He wished he couldtake Anne, Dick and George back to his own home. But he knew George wouldn't come.
And how could they leave her to the Sticks? It was quite impossible. Friends must stick together, andsomehow they must face things until Aunt Fanny and Uncle Quentin came back.
6.

















































































Chapter Seven BETTER NEWS
Chapter Seven BETTER NEWS
"Do you think we'd better slip down after the Sticks have gone to bed and get some food out of thelarder again?" said Dick, when no supper appeared that evening.
Julian didn't feel inclined to sneak down and confront Mr. Stick again. Not that he was afraid of him,but the whole thing was so unpleasant. This was their house, the food was theirs - so why should theyhave to beg for it, or take it on the sly? It was ridiculous.
"Come here, Timothy!" said Julian. The dog left George's side and went to Julian, looking up at theboy inquiringly. "You're going to come with me and persuade dear kind Mrs. Stick to give us the bestthings out of the larder!" said Julian, with a grin.
The others laughed, cheering up at once.
"Good idea!" said Dick. "Can we all come and see the fun.""Better not," said Julian. "I can manage fine by myself."He went down the passage to the kitchen. The radio was going inside, so no one in the kitchen heardJulian till he was actually standing inside the door. Then Edgar looked up and saw Timothy as well asJulian.
Edgar was scared of the big dog, who was now growling fiercely. He went behind the kitchen sofaand stayed there, eyeing Timmy fearfully.
"What do you want?" said Mrs. Stick, turning off the radio.
"Supper," said Julian, pleasantly. "Supper! The best things out of the larder - bought with my uncle'smoney, cooked on my aunt's stove with gas she pays for - yes, supper! Open the larder door and let'ssee what there is in there."
"Well, of all the nerve!" began Mr. Stick, in amazement.
"You can have a loaf of bread and some cheese," said Mrs. Stick, "and that's my last word.""Well, it isn't my last word," said Julian, and he went to the larder door. Timmy, keep to heel!
Growl all you like, but don't bite anybody - yet!"Timmy's growls were really frightful. Even Mr. Stick put himself at the other end of the room.
As for Stinker, he was nowhere to be seen. He had gone into the scullery at the very first growl, andwas now shivering behind the wringer.
31
Mrs. Stick's mouth went into a hard straight line. "You take the bread and cheese and clear out,"she said.
Julian opened the larder door, whistling softly, which annoyed Mrs. Stick more than anything else.
"My word!" said Julian, admiringly. "You do know how to stock a larder, I must say, Mrs.
Stick. A roast chicken! I thought I smelt one cooking. I suppose Mr. Stick killed one of our chickenstoday. I thought I heard a lot of squawking. And what fine tomatoes! Best to be got from the village,I've no doubt. And oh, Mrs. Stick - what a perfectly marvellous treacle tart! I must say you're a goodcook, I really must."
Julian picked up the chicken, the dish of tomatoes, and then balanced the plate with the treacle tart onthe top.
Mrs. Stick yelled at him.
"You leave them things alone! That's our supper! You leave them there.""You've made a little mistake," said Julian, politely. It's our supper! We've had very little to eat today,and we could do with a good supper. Thanks awfully!""Now look "ere!" began Mr. Stick, angrily, furious at seeing his lovely supper walking away.
"You surely don't want me to look at you again," said Julian, in a tone of amazement. "What for?
Have you shaved yet - or washed? I'm afraid not. So, if you don't mind I think I'd rather not look atyou."
Mr. Stick was speechless. He was not ready with his tongue at any time, and a boy like Julian tookhis breath away, and left him with nothing to say except his favourite "Now, look 'ere!""Put those things down," said Mrs. Stick sharply. "What do you think we're going to have for oursupper if you walk off with them? you tell me that!""Easy!" said Julian. "Let me offer you our supper - bread and cheese, Mrs. Stick, bread and cheese!"Mrs. Stick made an angry noise, and started to go after Julian with her hand raised. But Timothyimmediately leapt at her, and his teeth snapped together with a loud click.
"Oh!" howled Mrs. Stick. "That dog of yours nearly took my hand off! The brute! I'll do for him oneday, you see if I don't."
"You had a good try today, didn't you?" said Julian, in a quiet voice, fixing his eyes straight on thewoman's face. "That's a matter for the police, isn't it? Be careful, Mrs. Stick. I've a good mind to go tothe police tomorrow."
32
Just as before, the mention of the police seemed to frighten Mrs. Stick. She cast a look at her husbandand took a step backward. Julian wondered if the man had done something wrong and was hidingfrom the police. He never seemed to put a foot out of doors.
The boy went up the passage triumphantly. Timmy followed at his heels, disappointed that he hadn'tbeen able to get a nibble at Stinker. Julian marched into the sitting-room, and set the dishes carefullydown on the table.
"What ho!" he said. "Look what I've got - the Sticks' own supper!" Then he told the others all thathad happened, and they laughed loudly.
"How do you think of all those things to say?" said Anne, admiringly. "I don't wonder you makethem feel wild, Ju. It's a good thing we've got Timmy to back us up.""Yes, I shouldn't feel nearly so bold without Timmy," said Julian.
It was a very good supper. There were knives and forks in the sideboard, and the children made dowith fruit plates from the sideboard too, rather than go and get plates from the kitchen. There wasbread over from their tea, so they were able to make a very good meal. They enjoyed it thoroughly.
"Sorry we can't give you the chicken bones, Tim," said George, "but they might split inside you andinjure you. You can have all the scraps. See you don't leave any for Stinker!"Timmy didn't. With two or three great gulps he cleared his plate, and then sat waiting for any scrapsof treacle tart that might descend his way.
The children felt cheerful after such a good meal. They had completely eaten the chicken.
Nothing was left except a pile of bones. They had eaten all the tomatoes too, finished the bread, andenjoyed every scrap of the treacle tart.
It was late, Anne yawned, and then George yawned too. "Let's go to bed," she said. "I don't feel likehaving a game of cards or anything."
So they went to bed, and as usual Timothy lay heavily on George's feet. He lay there awake for sometime, his ears cocked to hear noises from below. He heard the Sticks go up to bed. He heard doorsclosing. He heard a whine from Stinker. Then all was silence. Timmy dropped his head on to hispaws and slept - but he kept one ear cocked for danger. Timothy didn't trust the Sticks any more thanthe children did!
The children awoke very early in the morning. Julian awoke first. It was a marvellous day. Julianwent to the window and looked out. The sky was a very pale blue, and rosy-pink clouds floated 33about it. The sea was a clean blue too, smooth and calm. Julian remembered what Anne often said -she said that the world in the early morning always looked as if it had come back fresh from thelaundry - so clean and new and fresh!
The children all bathed before breakfast, and this time they were back at half-past eight, afraid thatGeorge's father might telephone early again. Julian saw Mrs. Stick on the stairs and called to her.
"Has my uncle telephoned yet?"
"No," said the woman, in a surly tone. She had been hoping that the telephone would ring while thechildren were out, then, as she had done the day before, she could answer it, and get a few words infirst.
"We'll have breakfast now, please," said Julian. "A. good breakfast, Mrs. Stick. My uncle might askus what we'd had for breakfast, mightn't he? You never know."Mrs. Stick evidently thought that Julian might tell his uncle if she gave them only bread and butterfor breakfast, so very soon the children smelt a delicious smell of bacon frying. Mrs. Stick brought ina dish of it garnished with tomatoes. She banged it down on the table with the plates.
Edgar arrived with a pot of tea and a tray of cups and saucers.
"Ah, here is dear Edgar!" said Julian, in a tone of amiable surprise. "Dear old spotty-face!""Garn!" said Edgar, and banged down the teapot. Timmy growled, and Edgar fled for his life.
George didn't want any breakfast. Julian put hers back in the warm dish and put a plate over it.
He knew that she was waiting for news. If only the telephone would ring - then she would know ifher mother was really better or not.
It did ring as they were halfway through the meal. George was there before the bell had stoppedpealing. She put the receiver to her ear. "Father! Yes, it's George. How's Mother?"There was a pause as George listened. All the children stopped eating and listened in silence, waitingfor George to speak. They would know by her next words if the news was good or not.
"Oh - oh, I'm so glad!" they heard George say. "Did she have the operation yesterday? Oh, you nevertold me! But it's all right now, is it? Poor Mother! Give her my love. I do want to see her.
Oh Father, can't I come?"
Evidently the answer was no. George listened for a while, then spoke a few more words and saidgood-bye.
34
She ran into the sitting-room. "You heard, didn't you?" she said, joyfully. "Mother's better. She'll getall right now, and will be back home soon - in about ten days. Father won't come back till he bringsher home. It's good news about Mother - but I'm afraid we can't get rid of the Sticks."
7.






















































Chapter Eight GEORGE'S PLAN
Chapter Eight GEORGE'S PLAN
MRS. STICK had overheard the conversation on the telephone - at least, she had heard George's sideof it. She knew that George's mother was better and that her father would not return till her mothercould be brought home. That would be in about ten days! The Sticks could have a fine time till then,no doubt about that!
George suddenly found that her appetite had come back. She ate her bacon hungrily, and scraped thedish round with a piece of bread. She had three cups of tea, and then sat back contentedly.
"I feel better," she said. Anne slipped her hand in hers. She was very glad that her aunt was going tobe all right. If it wasn't for those awful Sticks they could have a lovely time. Then George saidsomething that made Julian cross.
"Well, now that I know Mother is going to be better, I can stand up to the Sticks all right by myselfwith Timmy. So I want you three to go back home and finish the hols without me. I shall be all right.""Shut up, George," said Julian. "We've argued this all out before. I've made up my mind - and I don'tchange it, any more than you do, when I've made it up. You make me cross.""Well," said George, "I told you I'd got a plan - and you don't come into it, I'm afraid - and you'll findyou'll have to go back home whether you mean to or not.""Don't be so mysterious, George!" said Julian, impatiently. "What is this strange plan? You'd bettertell us, even if we're not in it. Can't you trust us?""Yes, of course. But you might try to stop me," said George, looking sulky.
"Then you'd certainly better tell us," said Julian feeling uneasy. George was such a madcap once shegot ideas into her head. Goodness knows what she might do!
35
But George wouldn't say another word. Julian gave it up at last, but secretly made up his mind not tolet George out of his sight that day. If she was going to carry out some wild plan, then she wouldhave to do it under his, Julian's, eye!
But George didn't seem to be carrying out any wild plan. She bathed again with the others, went for awalk with them, and went for a row on the sea. She didn't want to go to Kirrin Island, so the othersdidn't press her, thinking that she didn't want to be out of sight of the beach in case Edgar came witha message from her father.
It was quite a pleasant day. The children bought sausage rolls again, and fruit, and picnicked on thebeach. Timmy had a large and juicy bone from the butcher's.
"I've got a bit of shopping to do," said George, about tea-time. "You others go and see if Mrs.
Stick is getting some tea for us, and I'll fly down to the shops and get what I want."Julian pricked up his ears at once. Was George sending them off so that she could be alone to carryout this mysterious plan of hers?
"I'll come with you," said Julian, getting up. "Dick can tackle Mrs. Stick for once, and take Timmywith him."
"No, you go," said George. "I won't be long."But Julian was determined not to go. In the end they all went with George, for Dick did not want toface Mrs. Stick without Julian or George.
George went into the little general shop and got a new battery for her torch. She bought two boxes ofmatches, and a bottle of methylated spirit.
"Whatever do you want that for?" said Anne in surprise.
"Oh, it might come in useful," said George, and said no more.
They all went back to Kirrin Cottage. Tea was actually on the table! True, it was not a thrilling tea,being merely bread and jam and a pot of hot tea - still it was there, and was eatable.
It rained that evening. The children sat round the table and played cards. Their hearts were lighternow that they had had good news of George's mother. In the middle of the game Julian got up andrang the bell. The others stared at him in the greatest surprise.
"What are you ringing the bell for?" asked George, her eyes wide with astonishment.
"To tell Mrs. Stick to bring some supper," said Julian, with a grin. But no one answered the bell.
So Julian rang again and then again.
36
The kitchen door opened at last and Mrs. Stick came up the passage, evidently in a bad temper.
She came into the sitting-room.
"You stop ringing that bell!" she said, angrily. "I'm not answering any bells rung by you.""I rang it to tell you that we wanted some supper," said Julian, "And to say that if you would rather Icame and got it myself from the larder - with Timmy - as I did last night, I'll come with pleasure. Butif not, you can bring a decent supper to us yourself.""If you come stealing things out of my larder again, I'll - I'll . . ." began Mrs. Stick.
"You'll call in the police!" Julian finished for her. "Do. That would please us very much. I can see ourlocal policeman taking down all the details in his notebook. I could give him quite a few."Mrs. Stick muttered something rude under her breath, glared at Julian as if she could kill him, andwent off down the passage again. By the sound of the clattering and crashing of crockery in thekitchen it was plain that Mrs. Stick was getting some sort of supper for them, and Julian grinned tohimself as he dealt out the cards.
Supper was not as good as the night before, but it was not bad. It was a little cold ham, cheese and theremains of a milk pudding. There was also a plate of cooked meat for Timmy.
George looked at it sharply. "Take that away," she said. "I bet you've poisoned it again. Take itaway!"
"No. On the contrary, leave it here," said Julian. "I'll take it down to the local chemist tomorrow andget him to test it. If, as George thinks, it's poisoned, the chemist might have a lot of interesting thingsto tell us."
Mrs. Stick took the meat away without a word. "Horrible woman!" said George, pulling Timothyclose to her. "How I hate her! I feel so afraid for Timmy."Somehow that spoilt the evening. As it grew dark the children became sleepy. "It's ten o'clock,"said Julian. "Bed, I think, everyone! Anne ought to have gone long ago. She isn't nearly old enoughto stay up as late as this."
"Well!" began Anne, indignantly. "I'm nearly as old as George, aren't I? I can't help being younger,can I?"
"All right, all right!" said Julian laughing. "I shan't make you go off to bed by yourself, don't worry.
We all keep together in this house while the Sticks are about. Come on! We'll go now, shall we?"37
The children were tired. They had swum, walked and rowed that day. Julian tried to keep awake alittle while, but he too fell asleep very quickly.
He awoke with a jump, thinking that he had heard a noise. But everything was quiet. What could thenoise have been? Was it one of the Sticks creeping about? No - it couldn't be that, or Tim would havebarked the house down. Then what was it? Something must have woken him.
"I suppose it's not old George doing anything about that plan of hers!" thought Julian, suddenly.
He sat up, He felt about for his dressing-gown and put it on. Without waking Dick he crept to thegirls' room, and switched on his torch to see that they were all right.
Anne was in her bed, sleeping peacefully. But George's bed was empty. George's clothes were gone!
"Blow!" said Julian, under his breath. "Where has she gone? I bet she's run away to find where hermother is!"
His torch picked out a white envelope pinned to George's pillow. He stepped softly over to it.
It had his name printed on it in bold letters. "JULIAN." Julian ripped it open and read it.
"Dear JULIAN," said the note,
"Don't be angry with me, please. I daren't stay in Kirrin Cottage any longer in case the Stickssomehow poison Timmy. You know that would break my heart. So I've gone to live by myself on ourisland till Mother and Father come back. Please leave a note for Father and tell him to ask Jim to sailnear Kirrin Island with his little red flag flying from the mast as soon as they are back.
Then I'll come home. You and Dick and Anne must go back to your own parents now I've gone.
It would be silly to stay at Kirrin Cottage with the Sticks now I'm not there.
Love from GEORGE."
Julian read the note through. "Well, why didn't I guess that was her plan!" he said to himself.
"That's why we didn't come into it! She meant to go off by herself with Timmy. I can't let her do that.
She can't live all by herself on Kirrin Island for so long. She might fall ill. She might slip on a rockand hurt herself, and no one would ever know!". The boy was really worried about the determinedlittle girl. He wondered what to do. That noise he heard must have been made by George. So shecouldn't have got a very long start really. If he tore down to the beach, George might still be there,and he could stop her.
38
So, in his dressing gown, he ran down the front path, out of the gate, and took the road to the beach.
The rain had stopped, and the stars were out. But it was not at all a light night.
"How can George expect to get through those rocks in the dark," he thought. "She's mad! She'll strikeher boat on a rock, and sink."
He tore on in the darkness, talking aloud to himself. "No wonder she wanted a new battery for hertorch, and matches - and I suppose the methylated spirit was for her little cooking stove!
Why ever couldn't she tell us? It would have been fun to go with her."He came to the beach. He saw the light of a torch where George kept her boat. He ran to it, his feetsinking in the soft wet sand.
"George! Idiot! You're not to go off like this all alone, in the dead of night!" called Julian.
George was pushing her boat out into the water. She jumped when she heard Julian's voice. "Youcan't stop me!" she said. "I'm just off!"But Julian caught hold of the boat, as he waded up to his waist in the water. "George, listen to me!
You can't go like this. You'll strike a rock. Come back!""No," said George, getting cross. "You can go back to your own home, Julian. I shall be all right.
Let go of my boat!"
"George, why didn't you tell me your plan?" said Julian, almost swept off his feet by a wave.
"Dash these waves! I shall have to get into the boat."He climbed in. He could not see George, but he felt quite certain she was glaring at him. Timmylicked his wet legs.
"You're spoiling everything," said George, with a break in her voice that meant she was upset.
"I'm not, silly!" said Julian, in a gentle voice. "Listen! - you come back to Kirrin Cottage with menow, George. And I'll faithfully promise you something. Tomorrow we'll all go to the island withyou. See? The whole lot of us. Why shouldn't we? Your mother said we could spend a week there,anyway, didn't she? We shall be out of the reach of those horrible Sticks. We shall enjoy ourselves,and have a marvellous time. So will you come back now, George, and let us go together tomorrow?"
8.


































































Chapter Nine AN EXCITING NIGHT
Chapter Nine AN EXCITING NIGHT
THERE was a silence, except for the waves splashing round the boat. Then George's voice came outof the darkness, lifted joyfully.
"Oh Julian - do you really mean it? Will you really come with me? I was afraid I'd get into trouble fordoing this, because Father said I must stay at Kirrin Cottage till he came back - and you know how hehates disobedience. But I knew if I stayed there, you would too - and I didn't want you to bemiserable with those horrid Sticks - so I thought I'd come away. I didn't think you'd come too,because of getting into trouble! I never even thought of asking you.""You're a very stupid person sometimes, aren't you, George?" said Julian. "As if we'd care aboutgetting into trouble, so long as we were all together, sticking by one another! Of course we'll comewith you - and I'll take all the responsibility for this escape, and tell your father it's my fault.""Oh no you won't," said George, quickly. "I shall say it was my idea. If I do wrong, I'm not afraid toown up to it. You know that."
"Well, we won't argue that now," said Julian. "We shall have at least a week or ten days on KirrinIsland to do all the arguing we want to. The thing is - let's get back now, wake up the others for a bit,and have a nice quiet talk in the dead of night about this plan of yours. I must say it's a very, verygood idea!"
George was overjoyed. "I feel as if I could hug you, Julian," she said. "Where are the oars? Oh, herethey are! The boat's floated quite a long way out."She rowed strongly back to the shore. Julian jumped out and pulled the boat up the beach, withGeorge's help. He shone his torch into the boat and gave an exclamation.
"You've quite a nice little store of things here," he said. "Bread and ham and butter and stuff.
How did you manage to get them without old Mr. Stick seeing you tonight? I suppose you slippeddown and got them out of the larder?" "
"Yes, I did," said George. "But there was no one in the kitchen tonight. Perhaps Mr. Stick has gone tosleep upstairs. Or maybe he has gone back to his ship. Anyway, there was no one there when I creptdown, not even Stinker."
40
"We'd better leave them here," said Julian. "Stuff them into that locker and shut down the lid. No onewill guess there's anything there. We'll have to bring down a lot more stuff if we're all going to liveon the island. Golly, this is going to be fun!"The children made their way back to the house, feeling thrilled and excited. Julian's wet dressing-gown flapped round his legs, and he pulled it up high to be out of the way. Timothy gambolled round,not seeming at all surprised at the night's doings.
When they got back to the house they woke the other two, who listened in astonishment to what hadhappened that night. Anne was so excited to think that they were all going to live on the island thatshe raised her voice in joy.
"Oh! That's the loveliest thing that could happen! Oh, I do think . . .""Shut up!" said three furious voices in loud whispers. "You'll wake the Sticks!""Sorry!" whispered Anne. "But oh - it's so terribly, awfully exciting."They began to discuss their plans. "If we go for a week or ten days, we must take plenty of stores,"said Julian.
"The thing is - can we possibly find food enough for so long? Even if we entirely empty the larder Idoubt if that would be enough for a week or so. We all seem such hungry people, somehow.""Julian," said George, suddenly remembering something, "I know what we'll do! Mother has a store-cupboard in her room. She keeps dozens and dozens of tins of food there, in case we ever get snowedup in the winter, and can't go to the village. That has happened once or twice you know. And I knowwhere Mother keeps the key! Can't we open the cupboard and get out some tins?""Of course!" said Julian, delighted. "I know Aunt Fanny wouldn't mind. And anyway, we can make alist of what we take and replace them for her, if she does mind. It will be my birthday soon, and I amsure to get money then."
"Where's the key?" whispered Dick.
"Let's go into Mother's room, and I'll show you where she keeps it," said George. "I only hope shehasn't taken it with her."
But George's mother had felt far too ill when she left home to think of cupboard keys. Georgefumbled at the back of a drawer in the dressing-table and brought out two or three keys tied 41together with thin string. She fitted first one and then another into a cupboard set in the wall. Thesecond one opened the door.
Julian shone his torch into the cupboard. It was filled with tins of food of all kinds, neatly arranged onthe shelves.
"Golly!" said Dick, his eyes gleaming. "Soup - tins of meat - tins of fruit - tinned milk - sardines- tinned butter - biscuits - tinned vegetables! There's everything we want here!""Yes," said Julian, pleased. "It's fine. We'll take all we can carry. Is there a sack or two anywhereabout, George, do you know?"
Soon the tins were quietly packed into two sacks. The cupboard door was shut and locked again.
The children stole to their own rooms once more.
"Well, that's the biggest problem solved - food," said Julian. "We'll raid the larder too, and take whatbread there is - and cake. What about water, George? Is there any on the island?""Well, I suppose there is some in that old well," said George, thinking, "but as there's no bucket oranything, we can't get any. I was taking a big container of fresh water with me - but we'd better filltwo or three more now you are all coming! I know where there are some, quite clean and new."So they filled some containers with fresh water, and put them with the sacks, ready to take to theboat. It was so exciting doing all these things in the middle of the night! Anne could hardly keep hervoice down to a whisper, and it was a wonder that Timothy didn't bark, for he sensed the excitementof the others.
There was a tin of cakes in the larder, freshly made, so those were added to the heap that was formingin the front garden. There was a large joint of meat too, and George wrapped it in a cloth and put thatwith the heap, telling Timmy in a fierce voice that if he so much as sniffed at it she would leave himbehind!
"I've got my little stove for boiling water on, or heating up anything," whispered George. "It's in theboat. That's what I bought the methylated spirit for, of course. You didn't guess, did you?
And the matches for lighting it. I say - what about candles? We can't use our torches all the time, thebatteries would soon run out."
They found a pound of candles in the kitchen cupboard, a kettle, a saucepan, some old knives andforks and spoons, and a good many other things they thought they might possibly want. They 42also came across some small bottles of ginger-beer, evidently stored for their own use by the Sticks.
"All bought out of my mother's money!" said George. "Well, we'll take the ginger-beer too. It will benice to drink it on a hot day."
"Where are we going to sleep at night?" said Julian. "In that ruined part of the old castle, where thereis just one room with a roof left, and walls?""That's where I planned to sleep," said George. "I was going to make my bed of some of the heatherthat grows on the island, covered by a rug or two, which I've got down in the boat.""We'll take all the rugs we can find," said Julian. "And some cushions for pillows. I say, isn't thissimply thrilling? I don't know when I've felt so excited. I feel like a prisoner escaping to freedom!
Won't the Sticks be amazed when they find us gone!""Yes - we'll have to decide what to say to them," said George, rather soberly. "We don't want themsending people after us to the island, making us come back. I don't think they should know we'vegone there."
"We'll discuss that later," said Dick. "The thing is to get everything to the boat while it's dark. It willsoon be dawn."
"How are we going to get all this down to George's boat?" said Anne, looking at the enormous pile ofgoods by the light of her torch. "We'll never be able to carry them all!"Certainly it looked a great pile. Julian had an idea, as usual. "Are there any barrows in the shed?"he asked George. "If we could pile the things into a couple of barrows, we could easily takeeverything in one journey. We could wheel the barrows along on the sandy side of the road so thatwe don't make any noise."
"Oh, good idea!" said George, delighted. "I wish I'd thought of that before. I had to make about fivejourneys to and from the boat when I took my own things. There are two barrows in the shed. We'llget them. One has a squeaky wheel, but we'll hope no one hears it."Stinker heard the squeak, as he lay in a corner of Mrs. Stick's room. He pricked up his ears andgrowled softly. He did not dare to bark, for he was afraid of bringing Timothy up. Mrs. Stick did nothear the growl. She slept soundly, not even stirring. She had no idea what was going on downstairs.
43
The things were all stowed into the boat. The children didn't like leaving them there unguarded.
In the end they decided to leave Dick there, sleeping on the rugs. They stood thinking for a momentbefore they went back without Dick.
"I do hope we've remembered all we shall want," said George, wrinkling up her forehead. "Golly- I know! We haven't remembered a tin-opener - nor a thing to take off the tops of the ginger-beerbottles. They've got those little tin lids that have to be forced off by an opener.""We'll put those in our pockets when we get back to the house and find them," said Julian. "Iremember seeing some in the sideboard drawer. Good-bye, Dick. We'll be down very early to rowoff. We must get some bread at the baker's as soon as he opens, because we've got hardly any, andwe'll see if we can pick up a very large bone at the butcher's for Timmy. George has got a bag ofbiscuits in the boat for him too."
The three of them set off back to the house with Timmy, leaving Dick curled up comfortably on therugs. He soon fell asleep again, his face upturned to the stars that would soon fade from the sky.
The others talked about what to tell the Sticks. "I think we won't tell them anything," said Julian, atlast. "I don't particularly want to tell them deliberate lies, and I'm certainly not going to tell them thetruth. I know what we'll do - there is a train that leaves the station about eight o'clock, which wouldbe the one we'd catch if we were going back to our own home. We'll find a timetable, leave it open onthe dining-room table, as if we'd been looking up a train, and then we'll all set off across the moor atthe back of the house, as if we were going to the station.""Oh yes - then the Sticks will think we've run away, and gone to catch the train back home," saidAnne. "They will never guess we've gone to the island.""That's a good idea," said George, pleased. "But how shall we know when Father and Mother getback?"
"Is there anyone you could leave a message with - somebody you could really trust?" asked Julian.
George thought hard. "There's Alf the fisher-boy," she said at last. "He used to look after Tim for mewhen I wasn't allowed to have him in the house. I know he'd not give us away.""We'll call on Alf before we go then," said Julian. "Now, let's look for that time-table and lay it openon the table at the right place."
44
They hunted for the time-table, found the right page, and underlined the train they hoped that theSticks would think they were catching. They found the tin and bottle openers, and put them into theirpockets. Julian found two or three more boxes of matches too. He thought two would not last longenough.
By this time dawn had come and the house was being flooded with early sunshine. "I wonder if thebaker is open," said Julian. "We might as well go and see. It's about six o'clock."They went to the baker. He was not open, but the new loaves had already been made. The baker wasoutside, sunning himself. He had baked his bread at night, ready to sell it new-made in the morning.
He grinned at the children.
"Up early today," he said. "What, you want some of my loaves - how many? Six! Good gracious,whatever for?"
"To eat," said George, grinning. Julian paid for six enormous loaves, and they went to the butcher's.
His shop was not open either, but the butcher himself was sweeping the path outside.
"Could we buy a very big bone for Timmy, please?" asked George. She got an enormous one, andTimmy looked at it longingly. Such a bone would last him for days, he knew!
"Now," said Julian, as they set off to the boat, "we'll pack these things into the boat, then go back tothe house, and make a noise so that the Sticks know we're there. Then we'll set off across the moors,and hope the Sticks will think we are making for the train."They woke Dick, who was still sleeping peacefully in the boat, and packed in the bread and bone.
"Take the boat into the next cove," said George. "Can you do that? We shall be hidden there fromanyone on the beach then. The fishermen are all out in their boats, fishing. We shan't be seen, if weset off in about an hour's time. We'll be back by then."They went back to the house and made a noise as if they were just getting up. George whistled toTimmy, and Julian sang at the top of his voice. Then, with a great banging of doors they set out downthe path and cut across the moors, in full sight of the kitchen window.
"Hope the Sticks won't notice Dick isn't with us," said Julian, seeing Edgar staring out of the window.
"I expect they'll think he's gone ahead."They kept to the path until they came to a dip, where they were hidden from any watcher at KirrinCottage. Then they took another path that led them, unseen, to the cove where Dick had taken theboat. He was there, waiting anxiously for them.
45
"Ahoy there!" yelled Julian, in excitement. "The adventure is about to begin."
9.







































































Chapter Ten KIRRIN ISLAND ONCE MORE!
Chapter Ten KIRRIN ISLAND ONCE MORE!
THEY all clambered into the boat. Timothy leapt in lightly and ran to the prow, where he alwaysstood. His tongue hung out in excitement. He knew quite well that something was up - and he was init! No wonder he panted and wagged his tail hard.
"Off we go!" said Julian, taking the oars. "Sit over there a bit, Anne. The luggage is weighing downthe boat awfully the other end. Dick, sit by Anne to keep the balance better. That's right.
Off we go!"
And off they went in George's boat, rocking up and down on the waves. The sea was fairly calm, buta good breeze blew through their hair. The water splashed round the boat and made a nice gurgly,friendly noise. The children all felt very happy. They were on their own. They were escaping fromthe horrid Sticks. They were going to stay on Kirrin Island, with the rabbits and gulls and jackdaws.
"Doesn't that new-made bread smell awfully good?" said Dick, feeling very hungry as usual.
"Can we just grab a bit, do you think?"
"Yes, let's," said George. So they broke off bits of the warm brown crust, handed some to Julian, whowas rowing, and chewed the delicious new-made bread. Timmy got a bit too, but his was gone assoon as it went into his mouth.
"Timmy's funny," said Anne. "He never eats his food as we do - he seems to drink it - just takes itinto his mouth and swallows it, as if it was water!"The others laughed. "He doesn't drink his bones." said George. "He always eats those all right -chews on them for hours and hours. Don't you, Timothy?""Woof!" said Timmy, agreeing. He eyed the place where that enormous bone was, wishing he couldhave it now. But the children wouldn't let him. They were afraid it might go overboard, and thatwould be a pity.
"I don't believe anyone has noticed us going," said Julian. "Except Alf the fisher-boy, of course.
We told him about going to the island, Dick, but nobody else."46
They had called at Alf's house on their way to the cove. Alf was alone in the yard at the back.
His mother was away and his father was out fishing. They had told him their secret, and Alf hadnodded his tousled head and promised faithfully to tell nobody at all. He was evidently very proud atbeing trusted.
"If my mother and father come back, you must let us know," said George. "Sail as near the island asyou dare, and hail us. You can get nearer to it than anyone else.""I'll do that," promised Alf, wishing he could go with them.
"So, you see, Dick," said Julian, as he rowed out to the island, "if by any chance Aunt Fanny doesreturn sooner than we expect, we shall know at once and come back. I think we've plannedeverything very well."
"Yes, we have," said Dick. He turned and faced the island, which was coming nearer. "We shall soonbe there. Isn't George going to take the oars and guide the boat in?""Yes," said George. "We've come to the difficult bit now, where we've got to weave our way in andout of the different rocks that keep sticking up. Give me the oars, Ju."She took the oars, and the others watched in admiration as the girl guided the big boat skilfully in andout of the hidden rocks. She certainly was very clever. They felt perfectly safe with her.
The boat slid into the little cove. It was a natural harbour, with the water running up to a stretch ofsand. High rocks sheltered it. The children jumped out eagerly, and four pairs of willing hands tuggedthe boat quickly up the sand. .
"Higher up still," panted George. "You know what awful storms suddenly blow up in this bay.
We want to be sure the boat is quite safe, no matter how high the seas run."The boat soon lay on one side, high up the stretch of sand. The children sat down, puffing andblowing. "Let's have breakfast here," said Julian. "I don't feel like unloading all those heavy things atthe moment. We'll get what we want for breakfast, and have it here on this warm bit of sand."They got a loaf of new bread, some cold ham, a few tomatoes and a pot of jam. Anne found knivesand forks and plates. Julian opened two bottles of ginger-beer.
"Funny sort of breakfast," he said, setting the bottles down on the sand, "But simply gorgeous whenanyone is as hungry as we are."
47
They ate everything except about a third of the loaf. Timmy was given his bone and some of his ownbiscuits. He crunched up the biscuits at once, and then sat down contentedly to gnaw the fine bone.
"How nice to be Timmy - with no plate or knife or fork or cup to bother about," said Anne, lying onher back in the sun, feeling that she really couldn't eat anything more. "Oh, if we are always going tohave mixed-up meals like this on the island, I shall never want to go back. Who would have thoughtthat ham and jam and ginger-beer would go so well together?"Timmy was thirsty. He sat with his tongue hanging out wishing that George would give him a drink.
He didn't like ginger-beer.
George eyed him lazily.
"Oh Timmy - are you thirsty?" she said. "Oh dear, I feel as if I really can't get up! You'll have to waita few minutes, then I'll go to the boat and empty out some water for you."But Timothy couldn't wait. He went off to some nearby rocks, which were out of reach of the sea. Ina hole in one of them he found some rain-water, and he lapped it up eagerly. The children heard himlapping it, and laughed.
"Isn't Timmy clever?" murmured Anne. "I should never have thought of that."The children had been up half the night, and now they were full of good things, and were very sleepy.
One by one they fell asleep on the warm sand. Timothy eyed them in astonishment. It wasn't night-time! Yet here were all the children sleeping tightly. Well, well - a dog could always go to sleep tooat any time! So Timothy threw himself down beside George, put his head right on her middle, andclosed his eyes.
The sun was high when the little company awoke. Julian awoke first, then Dick, feeling very hotindeed, for the sun was blazing down. They sat up, yawning.
"Goodness!" said Dick, looking at his arms. "The sun has caught me properly. I shall be terribly soreby tonight. Did we bring any cream, Julian?""No. We never thought of it," said Julian. "Cheer up! You'll be burnt much more by the time this dayends. The sun's going to be hot - there's not a cloud in the sky!"They woke up the girls. George pushed Timmy's head off her tummy. "You give me nightmareswhen you put your heavy head there," she complained. "Oh, I say - we're on the island, aren't we? Fora moment I thought I was back in bed at Kirrin Cottage!"48
"Isn't it gorgeous? - here we are for ages, all by ourselves, with tons of nice things to eat, able to dojust what we like!" said Anne, contentedly.
"I guess the old Sticks are glad we've gone," said Dick. "Spotty Face will be able to loll in the sitting-room and read all our books, if he wants to.""And Stinker-dog will be able to wander all over the house and lie on anybody's bed without beingafraid that Timothy will eat him whole," said George. "Well, let him. I don't care about anything nowthat I've escaped."
It was fun to lie there and talk about everything. But soon Julian, who could never rest for long, oncehe was awake, got up and stretched himself.
"Come on!" he said to the others. "There is work to do, Lazy-Bones! Come along!""Work to do? What do you mean?" said George in astonishment.
"Well, we've got to unload the boat and pack everything somewhere where it won't get spoilt if therain happens to come," said Julian. "And we've got to decide exactly where we're going to sleep, andget the heather for our beds and pile the rugs on them. There's plenty to do!""Oh, don't let's do it yet," said Anne, not at all wanting to get up out of the warm sand. But the otherspulled her up, and together they all set to work to unload the boat.
"Let's go and have a look at the castle," said Julian. "And find the little room where we'll sleep.
It's the only one left whole, so it will have to be that one."They went right to the top of the inlet, climbed up on to the rocks and made their way towards the oldruined castle, whose walls rose up from the middle of the little island. They stopped to gaze at it.
"It's a fine old ruin," said Dick. "Aren't we lucky to have an island and a castle of our own!
Fancy, this is all ours!"
They gazed through a big broken-down archway, to old steps beyond. The castle had once had twofine towers, but now one was almost gone. The other rose high in the air, half-ruined. The blackjackdaws collected there, talking loudly. "Chack, chack, chack! Chack, chack, chack!""Nice birds," said Dick. "I like them. See the grey patch at the back of their heads, Anne? I wonder ifthey ever stop talking."
"I don't think so," said George. "Oh, look at the rabbits - tamer than ever!"49
The courtyard was full of big rabbits, who eyed them as they came near. It really seemed as if itwould be possible to pat them, they were so tame - but one by one they edged away as the childrenapproached.
Timothy was in a great state of excitement, and his tail quivered from end to end. Oh those rabbits!
Why couldn't he chase them? Why was George so difficult about rabbits? Why couldn't he makethem run a bit?
But George had her hand on his collar, and gave him a stern glance. "Now, Timothy, don't you dareto chase even the smallest of these rabbits. They're mine, every one o them.""Ours!" corrected Anne at once. She wanted to share in the rabbits, as well as in the castle and theisland.
"Ours!" said George. "Let's go and have a look at the little dark room where we'll spend the nights."They made their way to where the castle did not seen to be quite so ruined. They came to a doorwayand looked inside.
"Here it is!" said Julian, peeping in. "I shall have to use my torch. The windows are only slits here,and it's quite dark."
He turned on his torch - and the children all gazed into the old room where they proposed to storetheir goods and sleep.
George gave a loud exclamation. "Golly! We can't use this room! The roof has fallen in since lastsummer."
So it had. Julian's torch shone on to a heap of fallen stones, scattered all over the floor. It was quiteimpossible to use the old room now. In any case it might be dangerous to do so, for it looked as ifmore stones might fall at any moment.
"Blow!" said Julian. "What shall we do about this? We shall have to find somewhere else for astoring and sleeping-place!"
10.





























































Chapter Eleven ON THE OLD WRECK
Chapter Eleven ON THE OLD WRECK
IT was quite a shock to have their plans spoilt. They knew there was no other room in the ruinedcastle that was sufficiently whole to shelter them. And they must find some sort of shelter, foralthough the weather was fine at the moment, it might rain hard any day - or a storm might blow up.
"And storms round about Kirrin are so very violent," said Julian, remembering one or two. "Do youremember the storm that tossed your wreck up from the bottom of the sea, George?""Oh yes," said George and Anne, together, and Anne added eagerly: "Let's go and see the wrecktoday if we can. I'd love to see if it's still balanced on those rocks, as it was last year, when weexplored it."
"Well, first we must make up our minds where we are going to sleep," said Julian, firmly. "I don'tknow if you realise it, but it's about three o'clock in the afternoon! We slept for hours on the sand -tired out with our exciting night, I suppose. We really must find some safe place and put our thingsthere at once, and make our beds."
"Well, but where shall we go?" said Dick. "There's no other place in the old castle.""There's the dungeon below," said Anne, shivering. "But I don't want to go there. It's so dark andmysterious."
Nobody wanted to sleep down in the dungeons! Dick frowned and thought hard. "What about thewreck?" he said. "Any chance of living there?""We might go and see," said Julian. "I don't somehow fancy living on a damp old rotting wreck -but if it's still high on the rocks, maybe the sun will have dried it, and it might be possible to have ourbed and stores there."
"Let's go and see now," said George. So they made their way from the ruined castle to the old wallthat ran round it. From there they would be able to see the wreck. It had been cast up the year before,and had settled firmly on some rocks.
They stood on the wall and looked for the wreck, but it was not where they had expected it. "It'smoved," said Julian, in surprise. "There it is, look, on those rocks - nearer to the shore than it wasbefore. Poor old wreck! It's been battered about a good bit this last winter, hasn't it? It looks muchmore of a real wreck than it did last summer."51
"I don't believe we shall be able to sleep there," said Dick. "It's dreadfully battered. We might be ableto store food there, though. Do you know, I believe we could get to it from those rocks that run outfrom the island!"
"Yes, I believe we could," said George. "We could only reach it safely by boat last summer - butwhen the tide is down, I think we could climb out over the line of rocks, right to the wreck itself.""We'll try in about an hour," said Julian, feeling excited. "The tide will be off the rocks by then.""Let's go and have a look at the old well," said Dick, and they made their way back to the courtyardof the castle. Here, the summer before, they had found the entrance to the well-shaft that ran deepdown through the rock, past the dungeons below, lower than the level of the sea, to fresh water.
The children looked about for the well, and came to the old wooden cover. They drew it back.
"There are the rungs of the old iron ladder I went down last year," said Dick, peering in. "Now let'sfind the entrance to the dungeon. The steps down into it are somewhere near here."They found the entrance, but to their surprise some enormous stones had been pulled across it.
"Who did that?" said George, frowning. "We didn't! Someone has been here!""Trippers, I suppose," said Julian. "Do you remember that we thought we saw a spire of smoke herethe other day? I bet it was trippers. You know, the story of Kirrin Island, and its old castle anddungeons, and the treasure we found in it last year, was all in the newspapers. I expect one of thefishermen has been making money by taking trippers and landing them on our island.""How dare they?" said George, looking very fierce. "I shall put up a board that says "Trespassers willbe sent to prison." I won't have strangers on our island.""Well, don't worry about the stones pulled across the dungeon entrance," said Julian. "I don't thinkany of us want to go down there. Look at poor old Timmy! He's gazing at those rabbits mostunhappily. Isn't he funny?"
Timothy was sitting down behind the children, looking most mournfully at the ring of rabbits allround the weed grown courtyard. He looked at the rabbits and then he looked at George, then helooked back at the rabbits.
"No good, Timmy," said George, firmly. "I'm not going to change my mind about rabbits. You're notto chase them on our island."
52
"I expect he thinks you're most unfair to him," said Anne. "After all, you said he might share yourquarter of the island with you - and so he thinks he ought to have his share of your rabbits too!"Everyone laughed. Timmy wagged his tail and looked hopefully at George. They all walked acrossthe courtyard and then Julian suddenly came to a stop.
"Look!" he said in surprise, pointing to something on the ground. "Look! Someone has been here!
This is where they built a fire!"
Everyone gazed at the ground. There was a heap of wood-ash there, quite evidently left from a fire.
Stamped into the ground was a cigarette end, too. There was absolutely no doubt about it -someone had been on the island!
"If trippers come here I'll set Timmy on to them!" cried George, in a fury. "This is our own place, itdoesn't belong to anybody else at all. Timothy, you mustn't chase rabbits here, but you can chaseanybody on two legs, except us! See?"
Timmy wagged his tail at once. "Woof!" he said, quite agreeing. He looked all round as if he hopedto see somebody appearing that he could chase. But there was no one.
"I should think the tide is about off those rocks by now," said Julian. "Let's go and see. If it is we'llclimb along them and see if we can get to the wreck. Anne had better not come. She might slip andfall, and the sea is raging all round the rocks.""Of course I'm coming!" cried Anne, indignantly "You're just as likely to fall as I am.""Well, I'll see if it looks too dangerous," said Julian. They made their way over the castle wall, downto the line of rocks that ran out seawards, towards the wreck. Big waves did wash over the rocksoccasionally, but it seemed fairly safe.
"If you keep between me and Dick, you can come, Anne," said Julian. "But you must let us help youover difficult parts, and not make a fuss. We don't want you to fall in and get washed away."They began to make their way along the line of rugged slippery rocks. The tide went down evenfarther as they got nearer to the wreck, and soon there was very little danger of being washed off therocks. It was possible now to get right to the wreck across the rocks - a thing they had not been ableto do the summer before.
"Here we are!" said Julian at last, and he put his hand on the side of the old wreck. She was a big shipnow that they were near to her. She towered above them, thick with shellfish and seaweed, 53smelling musty and old. The water washed round the bottom part of her, but the top part was right outof the water, even when the tide was at its highest.
"She's been thrown about a bit last winter," said George, looking at her. "There are a lot more newhole in her side, aren't there? And part of her old mast is gone and some of the deck. How can we getup to her?"
"I've got a rope," said Julian, and he undid a rope that he had wound round his waist. "Half a minute -I'll make a loop and see if I can throw it round that post sticking out up there."He threw the rope two or three times, but could not get the loop round the post. George took it fromhim impatiently. At the first throw she got it round the post. She was very good indeed at things likethat - better than a boy in some things, Anne thought admiringly.
She was up the rope like a monkey, and soon stood on the sloping slippery deck. She almost slipped,but caught at a broken piece of deck just in time. Julian helped Anne to go up, and then the two boysfollowed.
"It's a horrid smell, isn't it?" said Anne, wrinkling up her nose. "Do all wrecks smell like this? I don'tthink I'll go and look down in the cabins like we did last time. The smell would be worse there."So the others left Anne up on the half-rotten deck while they went to explore a bit. They went downto the smelly, seaweed-hung cabins, and into the captain's old cabin, the biggest of the lot.
But it was quite plain that not only could they not sleep there, but they could certainly not hope tostore anything there, either. The whole place was damp and rotten. Julian was half afraid his footwould go through the planking at any moment.
"Let's go up to the deck," he said. "It's nasty down here - awfully dark too."They were just going up, when they heard a shout from Anne, "I say! Come here, quick! I've foundsomething!"
They hurried up as fast as they could, slipping and sliding on the sloping deck. Anne was standingwhere they had left her, her eyes shining brightly. She was pointing to something on the opposite sideof the ship.
"What is it?" said George. "What's the matter?""Look - that wasn't here when we came here before surely!" said Anne, still pointing. The otherslooked where she pointed. They saw an open locker at the other side of the deck, and stuffed into itwas a small black trunk! How extraordinary!
54
"A little black trunk!" said Julian, in surprise. "No - that wasn't there before. It's not been there longeither - it's quite dry and new! Whoever does it belong to? And why should it be here?"
11.



















































Chapter Twelve THE CAVE IN THE CLIFF
Chapter Twelve THE CAVE IN THE CLIFF
CAUTIOUSLY the children made their way down the slippery deck towards the locker. The door ofthis had evidently been shut on the trunk but had come open, so that the trunk was not hidden, as hadbeen intended.
Julian pulled out the little black trunk. All the children were amazed. Why should anyone put a trunkthere?
"Smugglers, do you think?" said Dick, his eyes gleaming.
"Yes - it might be," said Julian, thoughtfully, trying to undo the straps of the trunk. "This would be avery good place for smugglers. Ships that knew the way could put in, cast off a boat with smuggledgoods, leave them here, and go on their way, knowing that people could come and collect the goodsat their leisure."
"Do you think there are smuggled goods inside the trunk?" asked Anne, in excitement. "What wouldthere be? Diamonds? Silks?"
"Anything that has a duty to be paid on it before it can get into the country," said Julian. "Blow thesestraps! I can't undo them."
"Let me try," said Anne, who had very deft little fingers. She began to work at the buckles, and in ashort time had the straps undone. But a further disappointment awaited them. The trunk was well andtruly locked! There were two good locks, and no keys!
"Blow!" said George. "How sickening! How can we get the trunk open now?""We can't," said Julian. "And we mustn't smash it open, because it would warn whoever it belongs tothat the goods had been found. We don't want to warn the smugglers that we have discovered theirlittle game. We want to try and catch them!""Ooooh!" said Anne, going red with excitement. "Catch the smugglers! Oh Julian! Do you reallythink we could?"
55
"Why not?" said Julian. "No one knows we are here. If we hid whenever we saw a ship approachingthe island, we might see a boat coming to it, and we could watch and find out what is happening. Ishould think that the smugglers are using this island as a sort of dropping-place for goods. I wonderwho comes and fetches them? Someone from Kirrin Village or the nearby places, I should think.""This is going to be awfully exciting," said Dick. "We always seem to have adventures when wecome to Kirrin. It's absolutely full of them. This will be the third one we have had.""I think we ought to be getting back over the rocks," said Julian, suddenly looking over the side ofthe ship and seeing that the tide had turned. "Come on - we don't want to be caught by the tide andhave to stay here for hours and hours! I'll go down the rope first. Then you come, Anne."They were soon climbing over the rocks again, feeling very excited. Just as they reached the laststretch of rocks leading to the rocky cliff of the island itself, Dick stopped.
"What's up?" said George, pushing behind him. "Do get on!""Isn't that a cave, just beyond that big rock there?" said Dick, pointing. "It looks awfully like one tome. If it was, it would be a simply lovely place to store our things in, and even to sleep in, if it wasout of reach of the sea."
"There aren't any caves on Kirrin," began George, and then she stopped short. What Dick waspointing at really did look like a cave. It was worth while seeing if it was one. After all, George hadnever explored this line of rocks, and so had never been able to catch sight of the cave that lay justbeyond. It could not possibly be seen from the land.
"We'll go and see," she said. So they changed their direction, and instead of climbing back the waythey had come, they cut across the mass of rock and made their way towards a jutting-out part of thecliff, in which the cave seemed to be.
They came to it at last. Steep rocks guarded the entrance, and half hid it. Except from where Dick hadseen it, it was really impossible to catch sight of it, it was so well-hidden.
"It is a cave!" said Dick, in delight, stepping into it. "And my, what a fine one!"It really was a beauty. Its floor was spread with fine white sand, as soft as powder, and perfectly dry,for the cave was clearly higher than the tide reached, except, possibly in a bad winter storm.
Round one side of it ran a stone ledge.
56
"Exactly like a shelf made for us!" cried Anne, in joy. "We can put all our things here. How lovely!
Let's come and live here and sleep here. And look, Julian we've even got a skylight in the roof!"The little girl pointed upwards, and the others saw that the roof of the cave was open in one part,giving on to the cliff-top itself. It was plain that somewhere on the heathery cliff above was a holethat looked down to the cave, making what Anne called a "skylight'.
"We could drop all our things down through that hole," said Julian, quickly making plans. "We wouldhave an awful time bringing them over the rocks. If we can find that hole up there when we are outon the cliff again, we can let down everything on a rope. It's not a very high"skylight", as Anne calls it, for the cliffs are low just here. I believe we could swing ourselves down arope easily, so that we needn't have the bother of clambering over the rocks to the seaward entrancewe have just come in by!"
This was a grand discovery. "Our island is even more exciting than we thought," said Anne, happily.
"We've got a beautiful cave to share now!"The next thing to do, of course, was to go up on the cliff and find the hole that led to the roof of thecave. So out they all went, Timmy too. Timmy was funny on the slippery rocks. His feet slitheredabout, and two or three times he fell into the water. But he just swam across the pools he fell into,clambered out and went on again with his slithering.
"He's like George!" said Anne, with a laugh. "He never gives up, whatever happens to him!"They climbed up to the top of the cliff. It was easy to find the hole once they knew it was there.
"Pretty dangerous, really," said Julian, when he had found it, and was peering down. "Any one of usmight have run on this cliff and popped down the hole by accident. See, it's all criss-crossed withblackberry brambles."
They scratched their hands, trying to free the hole from the brambles. Once they had cleared the hole,they could look right down into the cave quite easily.
"It's not very far down," said Anne. "It looks almost as if we could jump down, if we let ourselvesslide down this hole."
"Don't you do anything of the sort," said Julian. "You'd break your leg. Wait till we get a rope fixedup, hanging down into the cave. Then we can manage to get in and out easily."57
They went back to the boat, and began unloading it. They took everything across to the seaward sideof the island, where the cave was. Julian took a strong rope and knotted it thickly at intervals.
"To give our feet a hold as we go down," he explained. "If we drop down too quickly, we'll hurt ourhands. These knots will stop us slipping and help us to climb up.""Let me go down first, and then you can lower all our things to me," said George. So down she went,hand over hand, her feet easily finding the thick knots, feeling for one after another. It was a goodway to go down.
"How shall we get Timmy down?" said Julian. But Timothy, who had been whining anxiously at theedge of the hole, watching George sliding away from him, solved the difficulty himself.
He jumped into the hole and disappeared down it! There came a shriek from below.
"Oh! My goodness, what's this! Oh Timmy! Have you hurt yourself?"The sand was very soft, like a velvet cushion and Tim had not hurt himself at all. He gave himself ashake and then barked joyfully. He was with George again! He wasn't going to have his mistressdisappearing down mysterious holes without following her at once. Not Timmy!
Then followed the business of lowering down all the goods. Anne and Dick tied the things together inrugs, and Julian lowered them carefully. George untied the rope as soon as it reached her, took outthe goods, and then back went the rope again to be tied round another bundle.
"Last one!" called Julian, after a long spell of really hard work. "Then down we come too, and I don'tmind telling you that before we make our beds or anything, our next job is to have a jolly good meal!
It's hours and hours since we had a meal, and I'm starving."Soon they were all sitting on the warm soft floor of the cave. They opened a tin of meat, cut hugeslices of bread and made sandwiches. Then they opened a tin of pineapple chunks and ate those,spooning them out of the tin full of sweetness and juice. After that they still felt hungry so theyopened two tins of sardines and dug them out with biscuits. It made a really grand meal.
"Ginger-pop to finish up with please," said Dick "My word, why don't people always have meals likethis?"
"We'd better hurry up or we shan't be able to get heather for our beds," said George, sleepily.
"Who wants heather?" said Dick, "I don't! This lovely soft sand is all I shall want - and a cushion anda rug or two. I shall sleep better here than ever I did in bed!"58
So the rugs and cushions were spread out on the sandy floor of the cave. A candle was lighted as itgrew dark, and the four sleepy children looked at one another. Timmy, as usual, was with George.
"Good-night," said George. "I can't keep awake another minute. "Good-night, ev . . . ery . . .
body . . . good . . . night!"
12.



















































Chapter Thirteen A DAY ON THE ISLAND
Chapter Thirteen A DAY ON THE ISLAND
THE children hardly knew where they were the next day when they woke up. The sun was pouringinto the cave entrance, and fell first of all on George's sleeping face. It awoke her and she lay half-dozing, wondering why her bed felt rather less soft than usual.
"But I'm not in my bed - I'm on Kirrin Island, of course!" she thought suddenly to herself. She sat upand gave Anne a punch. "Wake up, sleepy-head! We're on the island!"Soon they were all awake rubbing the sleep from their eyes. "I think I'm going to get heather todayfor my bed, after all," said Anne. "The sand feels soft at first, but it gets hard after a bit."The others agreed that they would all get heather for their beds, set on the sand, with rugs forcovering. Then they would have really fine beds.
"It's fun to live in a cave," said Dick. "Fancy having a fine cave like this on our island, as well as acastle and dungeons! We are really very lucky.""I feel sticky and dirty," said Julian. "Let's go and have a bathe before we have breakfast. Then coldham, bread, pickles and marmalade for me!""We shall be cold after our bathe," said George. "We'd better light my little stove and put the kettleon to boil while we're bathing. Then we can make some hot cocoa when we come back shivering!""Oh yes," said Anne, who had never boiled anything on such a tiny stove before. "Do let's. I'll fill thekettle with water from one of the containers. What shall we do for milk?""There's a tin of milk somewhere in the pile," said Julian. "We can open that. Where's the tin-opener?"
59
It was not to be found which was most exasperating. But at last Julian discovered it in his pocket, soall was well.
The little stove was filled with methylated spirit, and lighted. The kettle was filled and set on top.
Then the children went off to bathe.
"Look! There's a simply marvellous pool in the middle of those rocks over there!" called Julian,pointing. "We've never spotted it before. Golly, it's like a small swimming-pool, made specially forus!"
"Kirrin Swimming Pool, five pence a dip!" said Dick. "Free to the owners, though! Come on - itlooks gorgeous! And see how the waves keep washing over the top of the rocks and splashing intothe pool. Couldn't be better!"
It really was a lovely rock-pool, deep, clear and not too cold. The children enjoyed themselvesthoroughly, splashing about and swimming and floating. George tried a dive off one of the rocks, andwent in beautifully.
"George can do anything in the water," said Anne, admiringly. "I wish I could dive and swim likeGeorge. But I never shall."
"We can see the old wreck nicely from here," said Julian, coming out of the water. "Blow! We didn'tbring any towels."
"We'll use one of the rugs, turn and turn about," said Dick. "I'll go and fetch the thinnest one. I say -do you remember that trunk we saw in the wreck yesterday? Odd, wasn't it?""Yes, very odd," said Julian. "I don't understand it. We'll have to keep a watch on the wreck and seewho comes to collect the trunk."
"I suppose the smugglers - if they are smugglers - will come slinking round this side of the island andquietly send off a boat to the wreck," said George, drying herself vigorously. "Well, we'd better keepa strict look-out, and see if anything appears on the sea out there in the way of a small steamer, boator ship."
"Yes. We don't want them to spot us," said Dick. "We shan't find out anything if they see us and arewarned. They'd at once give up coming to the island. I vote we each of us take turns at keeping alook-out, so that we can spot anything at once and get under cover.""Good idea!" said Julian. "Well, I'm dry, but not very warm. Let's race to the cave, and get that hotdrink. And breakfast - golly, I could eat a whole chicken and probably a duck as well, to say nothingof a turkey."
60
The others laughed. They all felt the same. They raced off to the cave, running over the sand andclimbing over a few rocks, then down to the cave-beach and into the big entrance, still splashed withsunshine.
The kettle was boiling away merrily, sending a cloud of steam up from its tin spout. "Get the ham outand a loaf of bread, and that jar of pickles we brought," ordered Julian. "I'll open the tin of milk.
George, you take the tin of cocoa and that jug, and make enough for all of us.""I'm so terribly happy," said Anne, as she sat at the entrance to the cave, eating her breakfast.
"It's a lovely feeling. It's simply gorgeous being on our island like this, all by ourselves, able to dowhat we like."
They all felt the same. It was such a lovely day too, and the sky and sea were so blue. They sat eatingand drinking, gazing out to sea, watching the waves break into spray over the rocks beyond the oldwreck. It certainly was a very rocky coast.
"Let's arrange everything very nicely in the cave," said Anne, who was the tidiest of the four, andalways liked to play at "houses" if she could. "This shall be our house, our home. We'll make fourproper beds. And we'll each have our own place to sit in. And we'll arrange everything tidily on thatbig stone shelf there. It might have been made for us!""We'll leave Anne to play "houses" by herself," said George, who was longing to stretch her legsagain. "We'll go and get some heather for beds. And oh! - what about one of us keeping a watch onthe old wreck, to see who comes there?"
"Yes - that's important," said Julian at once. "I'll take first watch. The best place would be up on thecliff just above this cave. I can find a gorse bush that will hide me all right from anyone out at sea.
You others get the heather. We will take two-hourly watches. We can read if we like, so long as wekeep on looking up."
Dick and George went to get the heather. Julian climbed up the knotted rope that still hung downthrough the hole, tied firmly to the great old root of an enormous gorse bush. He pulled himself outon the cliff and lay on the heather panting.
He could see nothing but to sea at all except for some big steamer miles out on the sky-line. He laydown in the sun, enjoying the warmth that poured into every inch of his body. This look-out job wasgoing to be very nice!
61
He could hear Anne singing down in the cave as she tidied up her "house'. Her voice came upthrough the cave- roof hole, rather muffled. Julian smiled. He knew Anne was enjoying herselfthoroughly.
So she was. She had washed the few bits of crockery they had used for breakfast, in a mostconvenient little rain-pool outside the cave. Timmy used it for drinking-water too, but he didn't seemto mind Anne using it for washing-up water, though she apologised to him for doing so.
"I'm sorry if I spoil your drinking water, Timmy darling," she said, "but you are such a sensible dogthat I know if it suddenly tastes nasty to you, you will go off and find another rain-pool.""Woof!" said Timmy, and ran off to meet George, who was just arriving back with Dick, armed withmasses of soft, sweet-smelling heather for beds.
"Put the heather outside the cave, please George," said Anne. "I'll make the beds inside when I'mready."
"Right!" said George. "We'll go and get some more. Aren't we having fun?""Julian's gone up the rope to the top of the cliff," said Anne. "He'll yell if he sees anything unusual. Ihope he does, don't you?"
"It would be exciting," agreed Dick, putting down his heather on top of Timmy, and nearly buryinghim. "Oh sorry Timmy - are you there? Bad luck!"Anne had a very happy morning. She arranged everything beautifully on the shelf - crockery andknives and forks and spoons in one place - saucepan and kettle in another - tins of meat next, tins ofsoup together, tins of fruit neatly piled on top of one another. It really was a splendid larder anddresser!
She wrapped all the bread up in an old tablecloth they had brought, and put it at the back of the cavein the coolest place she could find. The containers of water went there too, and so did all the bottlesof drinks.
Then the little girl set to work to make the beds. She decided to make two nice big ones, one on eachside of the cave.
"George and I and Tim will have the one this side," she thought, busy patting down the heather intothe shape of a bed. "And Julian and Dick can have the other side. I shall want lots more heather. Oh,is that you, Dick? You're just in time! I want more heather."Soon the beds were made beautifully, and each had an old rug for an under-blanket, and two betterrugs for covers. Cushions made pillows.
62
"What a pity we didn't bring night-things," thought Anne. "I could have folded them neatly and putthem under the cushions. There! It all looks lovely. We've got a beautiful house."Julian came sliding down the rope from the cliff to the cave. He looked round admiringly. "My word,Anne - the cave does look fine! Everything in order and looking so tidy. You are a good little girl."Anne was pleased to hear Julian's praise, though she didn't like him calling her a little girl.
"Yes, it does look nice, doesn't it?" she said. "But why aren't you watching up on the cliff, Ju?""It's Dick's turn now," said Julian. "The two hours are up. Did we bring any biscuits? I feel as if Icould do with one or two, and I bet the others could too. Let's all go up to the cliff-top and have some.
George and Timmy are there with Dick."
Anne knew exactly where to put her hand on the tin of biscuits. She took out ten and climbed up tothe cliff-top. Julian went up on the rope. Soon all five were sitting by the big gorse-bush, nibbling atbiscuits, Timmy too. At least, he didn't nibble. He just swallowed.
The day passed very pleasantly and rather lazily. They took turns at being look-out, though Anne wasseverely scolded by Julian in the afternoon for falling asleep during her watch. She was very ashamedof herself and cried.
"You're too little to be a look-out, that's what it is," said Julian. "We three and Timmy had better doit."
"Oh, no, do let me too," begged poor Anne. "I never, never will fall asleep again. But the sun was sohot and . . ."
"Don't make excuses," said Julian. "It only makes things worse if you do. All right - we'll give youanother chance, Anne, and see if you are really big enough to do the things we do."But though they all took their turns, and kept a watch on the sea for any strange vessel, noneappeared. The children were disappointed. They did so badly want to know who had put that trunk onthe wreck and why, and what it contained.
"Better go to bed now," said Julian, when the sun sank low. "It's about nine o'clock. Come on!
I'm really looking forward to a sleep on those lovely heathery beds that Anne has made so nicely!"
13.


























































Chapter Fourteen DISTURBANCE IN THE NIGHT
Chapter Fourteen DISTURBANCE IN THE NIGHT
IT was dark in the cave, not really quite dark enough to light a candle, but the cave looked so nice bycandlelight that it was fun to light one. So Anne took down the candle-stick and lighted the candle. Atonce queer shadows jumped all round the cave, and it became a rather exciting place, not at all likethe cave they knew by daylight!
"I wish we could have a fire," said Anne.
"We'd be far too hot," said Julian. "And it would smoke us out. You can't have a fire in a cave likethis. There's no chimney."
"Yes, there is," said Anne, pointing to the hole in the roof. "If we lighted a fire just under that hole, itwould act as a chimney, wouldn't it?"
"It might," said Dick, thoughtfully. "But I don't think so. We'd simply get the cave full of stiflingsmoke, and we wouldn't be able to sleep for choking.""Well, couldn't we light a fire at the cave entrance then?" said Anne who felt that a real home oughtto have a fire somewhere. "Just to keep away wild beasts, say! That's what the people of old timesdid. It says so in my history book. They lighted fires at the cave entrance at night to keep away anywild animal that might be prowling around.""Well, what wild beasts do you think are likely to come and peep into this cave?" asked Julian, lazily,finishing up a cup of cocoa. "Lions? Tigers? Or perhaps you are afraid of an elephant or two."Everyone laughed. "No - I don't really think animals like that would come," said Anne. "Only - itwould be nice to have a red, glowing fire to watch when we go to sleep.""Perhaps Anne thinks the rabbits might come in and nibble our toes or something," said Dick.
"Woof!" said Tim, pricking up his ears as he always did at the mention of rabbits.
"I don't think we ought to have a fire," said Julian, "because it might be seen out at sea and give awarning to anyone thinking of coming to the island to do a bit of smuggling.""Oh no, Julian - the entrance to this cave is so well-hidden that I'm sure no one could see a fire out tosea," said George, at once. "There's that line of high rocks in front, which must hide it completely. Ithink it would be rather fun to have a fire. It would light up the cave so queerly and excitingly."64
"Oh good, George!" said Anne, delighted to find someone agreeing with her.
"Well, we can't possibly fag out and get sticks for it now," said Dick, who was far too comfortable tomove.
"You don't need to," said Anne, eagerly. "I got plenty myself today, and stored them at the back ofthe cave, in case we wanted a fire."
"Isn't she a good little house-wife!" said Julian, in great admiration. "She may go to sleep when she'slook-out, but she's wide-awake enough when it comes to making a house for us out of a cave! Allright, Anne - we'll make a fire for you!"They all got up and fetched the sticks from the back of the cave. Anne had been to the jackdaw towerand had picked up armfuls that the birds had dropped when making their nests in the tower. Theybuilt them up to make a nice little fire. Julian got some dried seaweed too, to drop into it.
They lit the fire at the cave entrance, and the dry sticks blazed up at once. The children went back totheir heather-beds, and lay down on them, watching the red flames leaping and crackling.
The red glow lit up the cave and made it very weird and exciting.
"This is lovely," said Anne, half-asleep. "Really lovely. Oh Timmy, move a bit do. You're so heavyon my feet. Here, George, pull Timothy over to your side. You're used to him lying on you.""Good-night," said Dick, sleepily. ''The fire is dying down, but I can't be bothered to put any morewood on it. I'm sure all the lions and tigers and bears and elephants have been frightened away.""Silly!" said Anne. "You needn't tease me about it - you've enjoyed it as much as I have! Goodnight."They all fell asleep and dreamed peacefully of many things. Julian awoke with a jump. Some queernoise had awakened him. He lay still, listening.
Timothy was growling deeply, right down in his throat. "R-r-r-r-r-r-r," he went. "Gr-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r!"George awoke too, and put out her hand sleepily. "What's the matter, Tim?" she said.
"He's heard something, George," said Julian, in a low voice from his bed on the other side of thecave.
65
George sat up cautiously. Timmy was still growling. "Sh!" said George and he stopped. He wassitting up straight, his ears well cocked.
"Perhaps it's the smugglers come in the night," whispered George, and a funny prickly feeling randown her back. Somehow smugglers in the day time were rather exciting and quite welcome- but at night they seemed different. George didn't at all want to meet any just then!
"I'm going out to see if I can spy anything," said Julian, getting off his bed quietly, so as not to wakeDick. I'll go up the rope to the top of the cliff. I can see better from there.""Take my torch," said George. But Julian didn't want it.
"No, thanks. I can feel the way up that knotted rope quite well, whether I can see or not," he said.
He went up the rope in the dark, his body twisting round as the rope turned. He climbed up on to thecliff and looked out to sea. It was a very dark night, and he could see no ship at all, not even thewreck. It was far too dark.
"Pity there's no moon," thought Julian. "I might be able to see something then."He watched for a few minutes, and then George's voice came through the hole in the roof, coming outqueerly at his feet.
"Julian! Is there anything to see? Shall I come up?""Nothing at all," said Julian. "Is Timmy still growling?""Yes, when I take my hand off his collar," said George. "I can't imagine what's upset him."Suddenly Julian caught sight of something. It was a light, a good way beyond the line of rocks.
He watched in excitement. That would be just about where the wreck was! Yes - it must be someoneon the wreck with a lantern!
"George! Come up!" he said, putting his head inside the hole.
George came up, hand over hand, like a monkey, leaving Timothy growling below. She sat by Julianon the cliff-top. "See the wreck - look, over there!" said Julian. "At least, you can't see the wreckitself, it's too dark - but you can see a lantern that someone has put there.""Yes - that's someone on our wreck, with a lantern!" said George, feeling excited. "Oh, I wonder ifit's the smugglers - coming to bring more things.""Or somebody fetching that trunk," said Julian. "Well, we'll know tomorrow, for we'll go and see.
Look! - whoever is there is moving off now - the light of the lantern is going lower - they must begetting into a boat by the side of the wreck. And now the light's gone out."66
The children strained their ears to hear if they could discover the splash of oars or the sound of voicesover the water. They both thought they could hear voices.
"The boat must have gone off to join a ship or something," said Julian. "I believe I can see a faintlight right out there - out to sea, look! Maybe the boat is going to it."There was nothing more to see or hear, and soon the two of them slid down the knotted rope back tothe cave. They didn't wake the others, who were still sleeping peacefully. Timothy leapt up andlicked Julian and George, whining joyfully. He did not growl any more.
"You're a good dog, aren't you?" said Julian, patting him. "Nothing ever escapes your sharp ears,does it?"
Timothy settled down on George's feet again. It was plain that whatever it was that had disturbed himhad gone. It must have been the presence of the stranger or strangers on the old wreck. Well, theywould go there in the morning and see if they could discover what had been taken away or broughtthere in the night.
Anne and Dick were most indignant the next morning when they heard Julian's tale. "You might havewaked us!" said Dick, crossly.
"We would have if there had been anything much to see," said George. "But there was only just thelight from a lantern, and nothing else except that we thought we heard the sound of voices."When the tide was low enough the children and Timothy set off over the rocks to the wreck.
They clambered up and stood on the slanting, slippery deck. They looked towards the locker wherethe little trunk had stood. The door of the locker was shut this time.
Julian slid down towards it and tried to pull it open. Someone had stuffed a piece of wood in to keepthe locker from swinging open. Julian pulled it out. Then the door opened easily.
"Anything else in there?" said George, stepping carefully over the slimy deck to Julian.
"Yes," said Julian. "Look! Tins of food! And cups and plates and things - just as if someone wasgoing to come and live on the island too! Isn't it funny? The trunk is still here too, locked as before.
And here are some candles - and a little lamp - and a bundle of rags. Whatever are they here for?"It really was a puzzle. Julian frowned for a few minutes, trying to think it out.
"It looks as if someone is going to come and stay on the island for a bit - probably to wait there andtake in whatever goods are going to be smuggled. Well - we shall be on the look-out for them, day ornight!"
67
They left the wreck, feeling excited. They had a fine hiding-place in their cave - no one couldpossibly find them there. And, from their hiding-place they could watch anyone coming to and fromthe wreck, and from the wreck to the island.
"What about our cove, where we put our boat?" said George, suddenly. "They might use that cove,you know - if they came in a boat. It's rather dangerous to reach the island from the wreck, if anyonetried to get to the rocky beach nearby."
"Well - if anyone came to our cove, they'd see our boat," said Dick, in alarm. "We'd better hide it,hadn't we?"
"How?" said Anne, thinking that it would be a difficult thing to hide a boat as big as theirs.
"Don't know," said Julian. "We'll go and have a look."All four and Timmy went off to the cove into which they had rowed their boat. The boat was pulledhigh up, out of reach of the waves. George explored the cove well, and then had an idea.
"Do you think we could pull the boat round this big rock? It would just about hide it, though anyonegoing round the rock would see it at once."The others thought it would be worth while trying, anyway. So, with much panting and puffing, theyhauled the boat round the rock, which almost completely hid her.""Good!" said George, going down into the cove to see if very much of the boat showed. "A bit of herdoes show still. Let's drape it with seaweed!"So they draped the prow of the boat with all the seaweed they could find at hand, and after that,unless anyone went deliberately round the big rock, the boat really was not noticeable at all.
"Good!" said Julian, looking at his watch. "I say - it's long past tea-time - and, you know, while we'vebeen doing all this with the boat, we quite forgot to have someone on the look-out post on the cliff-top. What idiots we are!"
"Well, I don't expect anything has happened since we've been away from the cave," said Dick,putting a fine big bit of seaweed on the prow of the boat, as a last touch. "I bet the smugglers willonly come at night."
"I dare say you're right," said Julian. "I think we'd better keep a look-out at night, too. The lookoutcould take rugs up to the cliff-top and curl up there.""Timmy could be with whoever is keeping watch," said Anne, "Then if the look-out goes to sleep bymistake, Timmy would growl and wake them up if he saw anything."68
"You mean, when you go to sleep," said Dick, grinning. "Come on - let's get back to the cave andhave some tea."
And then Timothy suddenly began to growl again!
14.








































































Chapter Fifteen WHO IS ON THE ISLAND?
Chapter Fifteen WHO IS ON THE ISLAND?
"Sh!" said Julian, at once. "Get down behind this bush, quick, everyone!"They had left the cove and were walking towards the castle when Timmy growled. Now they allcrouched behind a mass of brambles, their hearts beating fast.
"Don't growl, Timmy," said George, in Timothy's nearest ear. He stopped at once, but he stood stiffand quivering, on the watch.
Julian peeped through the bush, parting the brambles and scratching his hands. He could just seesomebody in the courtyard - one person - two persons - maybe three. He strained his eyes to try andsee, but even as he looked, they disappeared.
"I believe they've moved those big stones over the entrance to the dungeons, and have gone downthere," he whispered. "Stay here, and I'll creep out a bit and see. I won't let anyone spot me."He came back and nodded. "Yes - they've gone down the dungeons. Do you think they can be thesmugglers? Do you suppose they are storing their smuggled goods down there? It would be amarvellous place, of course."
"Let's get back to the cave while they are underground," said George. "I'm so afraid Timmy will givethe game away by barking. He's just bursting himself trying not to make some sort of noise.""Come on, then!" said Julian. "Don't go across the courtyard - make for the shore and we'll scrambleround it till we get to the cave. Then one of us can pop up through the hole and hide behind that biggorse bush there to see who the smugglers are. They must have come in by boat either from thewreck, or by rowing cleverly through the rocks off-shore."69
They got to the cave at last and went in. But no sooner had Julian shinned up the rope, helped by theothers, than Timothy disappeared! He ran out of the cave while the others' backs were turned, andwhen George turned round there was no Timmy to be seen!
"Timmy!" she called in a low voice. "Timmy! Where are you?"But no answer came! Timmy had gone off on his own. If only the smugglers didn't see him!
What a bad dog he was to do that!
But Timmy had smelt something exciting - he had smelt a smell he knew - a dog-smell - and hemeant to find the owner of it and bite off his ears and tail! "Gr-r-r-r-r-r!" Timmy was not going toallow dogs on his island!
Julian sat close beside the gorse bush, watching all round. There was nothing to be seen on the wreck,and there was no ship out to sea. Probably the boat that had brought the strangers to the island washidden down below among the rocks. Julian looked behind him, towards the castle -and even as he looked, he saw an astonishing sight!
A dog was sniffing about the bushes not far away - and creeping up behind him, all his hackles up,was Timothy! Timothy was stalking the dog as if he were a cat stalking a rabbit! The other dogsuddenly heard him and leapt round, facing Timothy. Timmy flung himself on the dog with a blood-curdling howl, and the dog howled in fright.
Julian watched in horror, not knowing what to do. The two dogs made a fearful noise, especially theother dog whose howls of terror and yelps of rage resounded everywhere.
"This will bring the smugglers up, and they will see Timmy and know there's someone on the island,"thought Julian. "Oh, blow you, Timmy! - why didn't you stay with George and keep quiet?"From the walls of the ruined castle came three figures, running pell-mell to see what was happeningto their dog - and Julian stared at them in the very greatest amazement - for the three people were noother than Mr. Stick, Mrs. Stick and Edgar!
"Golly!" said Julian, crawling round the bush to get to the hole quickly. "They've come after us!
They've guessed we've gone here and they've come to look for us, the beasts, to make us go back!
Well, they won't find us! But oh, what a pity Timmy's given the show away!"There came a shrill whistle from down below him. It was George, who, hearing the row from thedogs, was feeling worried, and had sent out her piercing whistle for Timmy. It was a whistle the 70dog always obeyed, and he let go his hold of the dog and shot off to the cliff-top at once, just as thethree Sticks arrived on the scene, and picked up their bleeding, whining mongrel.
Edgar tore after Timmy, up to the cliff-top. Julian dropped down to the cave when he spotted Edgarappearing. Timmy ran to the hole and dropped bodily down, landing almost on top of Julian. Heflung himself on George.
"Shut up, shut up!" said George, in an urgent whisper to the excited dog. "Do you want to give ourhiding-place away, you idiot?"
Edgar, panting and puffing, arrived on the cliff-top, and was completely amazed to see Timothyapparently disappear into the solid earth. He hunted about for a bit, but it was clear that the dog wasno longer on the cliff.
Mr. and Mrs. Stick came up too. "Where did that dog go?" shouted Mrs. Stick. "What was he like?""He looked awfully like that horrible dog of the children's," said Edgar. His voice could clearly beheard by everyone down in the cave. The children kept as quiet as mice.
"But it couldn't be!" came Mrs. Stick's voice. "The children have gone home - we saw them, and thedog too, making off towards the railway. It must be some sort of stray dog left here by a tripper.""Well, where is he, then?" said Mr. Stick's hoarse voice. "Can't see no dog anywhere about now.""He disappeared into the earth," said Edgar, in a surprised voice.
Mr. Stick made a rude and scornful noise. "You tell lovely tales, you do," he said. "Disappeared intothe earth! What next? Fell over the cliff, I should think. Well, he got his teeth into poor Tinker goodand proper. My word, if I see that dog, I'll shoot him!""He might have some hiding-place about this cliff," said Mrs. Stick. "Let's have a look!"The children sat as quiet as mice. George with a warning hand on Timmy's collar. They could hearthat the Sticks were really very near. Julian expected one of them to fall down the hole at anymoment!
But mercifully they didn't happen on the hole that led down to the cave. They stood quite near to it,though, while they were discussing the problem.
"If it's the children's dog, then those tiresome kids must have come to this island, instead of goinghome," said Mrs. Stick. "That would upset our plan all right! We shall have to find out. I'll have nopeace till I know."
71
"We can soon find out," said Mr. Stick. "No need to worry about that. Their boat will be heresomewhere - and they'll all be about, too! It's impossible for four children, a dog and a boat to behidden on this small island once anyone starts hunting for them! Edgar, you go round that way.
Clara, you get along round about the castle. They may be hiding somewhere in the ruins. I'll have alook about here."
The children crouched together in the cave. How they hoped that their boat would not be found!
How they hoped that no one would find any traces of them at all! Timmy growled softly, wishing thathe could go and find that Stinker-dog again! It had been lovely to bite his ears hard.
Edgar was half-scared of finding the children, and a good deal more scared of coming up againstTimmy somewhere. So he did not make much of a search for either the children or the boat. He wentinto the cove where the boat had been pulled up, and although he saw traces where the vessel hadbeen hauled up, barely smoothed out by the sea-water at high-tide, he did not notice the seaweedyprow of the boat sticking out round the rock behind which it was hidden.
"Nothing here!" he called to his mother, who was going round and about the ruins, looking into everylikely nook. But she found nothing either, and neither did Mr. Stick.
"Couldn't have been the children's dog," said Mr. Stick, at last. "They'd be here if he was, and sowould their boat, but there's no sign of them at all. That dog must have been some wild stray.
Have to look out for him, no doubt about it. Gone wild, I should think."The children relaxed after about an hour, thinking that the Sticks must have given up looking forthem. They boiled the kettle to make some tea, and Anne began to cut some sandwiches. Timmy wastied up in case he wandered out again to look for Stinker.
They ate their tea quietly, not speaking above a whisper. "The Sticks haven't come here to look forus, after all," said Julian. "It's quite plain from what they said that they thought we had gone to catchthe train home, taking George and Timmy with us.""Then what are they here for?" demanded George, fiercely. "It's our island! They've no right here.
Let's go and turn them off! They're scared of Timmy. We'll take him with us and say we'll set him onto them if they don't clear out."
"No, George," said Julian, "Do be sensible. We don't want them rushing off and telling your father weare here, or he may lose his temper and come flying home to order us back. And -there's another thing I've thought of."
"What?", asked the others, seeing Julian's eyes gleam in the way they did when he had an idea.
72
"Well," said Julian, "don't you think it's possible that the Sticks are something to do with thesmugglers? Don't you think they may come here to take off smuggled goods, or to hide them till theycan take them off in safety? Mr. Stick is a sailor, isn't he? He would know all about smuggling. I bethe's in the pay of the smugglers all right.""I believe you're right!" said George, in excitement. "Well - we'll wait till the Sticks have gone, andthen we'll go down into the dungeons and see if they've hidden anything there! We'll find out theirlittle game and stop it! It will be terribly thrilling, won't it?"
15.
















































Chapter Sixteen THE STICKS GET A FRIGHT
Chapter Sixteen THE STICKS GET A FRIGHT
BUT the Sticks didn't go! The children peeped out of the spy-hole at the top of the cave-roof everynow and again, and saw one or other of the Sticks. The evening went on and it began to be dark. Stillthe Sticks didn't go. Julian ran down to the nearby shore and discovered a small boat there. So theSticks had managed to find their way round the island, rowed near the wreck, maybe landed on it too,and then come to the shore, cleverly avoiding the rocks they might strike against.
"It looks as if the Sticks have come to stay for the night," said Julian, gloomily. "This is going tospoil our stay here, isn't it? We rush away here to escape from the Sticks - and lo and behold! theSticks are on top of us again. It's too bad.""Let's frighten them," said George, her eyes shining by the light of the one candle in the cave.
"What do you mean?" said Dick, cheering up. He always liked George's ideas, mad as theysometimes were.
"Well, I suppose they must be living down in one of the dungeon rooms, mustn't they?" said George.
"There is no place in the ruins to live in proper shelter, or we'd be there ourselves - and the only otherplace is down in the dungeons. I wouldn't care to sleep there myself, but I don't suppose the Stickswould mind."
"Well, what about it?" said Dick. "What's your idea?""Couldn't we creep down, and do a bit of shouting, so that the echoes start up all round?" saidGeorge. "You know how frightening we found the echoes when we first went down into the 73dungeons. We only had to say one or two words, and the echoes began saying them over and overagain shouting them back at us."
"Oh yes, I remember," said Anne. "And wasn't Timmy frightened when he barked! The echoesbarked back at him, and he thought there were thousands of dogs hiding down there! He was awfullyfrightened."
"It's a good idea," said Julian. "Serve the Sticks right for coming to our island like this! If we canfrighten them away, that would be one up to us! Let's do it.""What about Timothy?" said Anne. "Hadn't we better leave him behind?""No. He can come and stand at the dungeon entrance to guard it for us," said George. "Then if any ofthe real smugglers happened to come, Timmy could give us warning. I'm not going to leave himbehind."
"Come on, then, let's go now!" said Julian. "It would be a fine trick to play. It's quite dark, but I've gotmy torch, and as soon as we are certain that the Sticks are down in the dungeons, we can start to playour joke."
There was no sign or sound of the Sticks anywhere about. No light of fire or candle was to be seen,no sound of voices to be heard. Either they had gone, or they were below in the dungeons.
The stones had been taken from the entrance, so the children felt sure they were down there.
"Now Timmy, you stay quite still and quiet here," whispered George to Timmy. "Bark if anyonecomes, but not unless. We're going down into the dungeons.""I think perhaps I'll stay up here with Timothy," said Anne, suddenly. She didn't like the dark look ofthe dungeon entrance. "You see, George - Timmy might be frightened or lonely up here by himself."The others chuckled. They knew Anne was frightened. Julian squeezed her arm. "You stay here,then," he said, kindly. "You keep old Timmy company."Then Julian, George and Dick went down the long flight of steps that led into the deep old dungeonsof Kirrin Castle. They had been there the summer before, when they had been seeking for losttreasure; now here they were again!
They crept down the steps and came to the many cellars or dungeons cut out of the rock below thecastle. There were scores of those, some big and some small, queer, damp underground rooms inwhich, maybe, unhappy prisoners had been kept in the olden days.
74
The children crept down the dark passages. Julian had a piece of white chalk with him, and drew achalk-line here and there on the rocky walls as he went, so that he might easily find the way back.
Suddenly they heard voices and saw a light. They stopped and whispered softly together in eachother's ears.
"They're in that room where we found the treasure last year! That's where they're camping out!
What noises shall we make?"
"I'll be a cow," said Dick. "I can moo awfully like a cow. I'll be a cow.""I'll be a sheep," said Julian. "George, you be a horse. You can whinny and hrrrumph just like ahorse. Dick, you begin!"
So Dick began. Hidden behind a rocky pillar, he opened his mouth and mooed dolefully, like a cowin pain. At once the echoes took up the mooing, magnified it, sent it along all the undergroundpassages, till it seemed as if a thousand cows had wandered there and were mooing together.
"Moo - oo - oo - OOOOOOOO, ooo - oo - MOOOOOOO!"The Sticks listened in amazement and fright at the sudden awful noise.
"What is it, Ma?" said Edgar, almost in tears. Stinker crouched at the back of the cave, terrified.
"It's cows," said Mr. Stick, amazed. "Them there's cows. Can't you hear the moos? But how did cowsget to be here?"
"Nonsense!" said Mrs. Stick, recovering herself a little. "Cows down these caves! You're mad!
You'll be telling me there're sheep next!"It was funny that she should have said that, for Julian chose that moment to begin baa-ing like a flockof sheep. His one long, bleating "baa-baa-aa-aa" was taken up by the echoes at once, and it seemedsuddenly as if hundreds of poor lost sheep were baa-ing their way down the dungeons!
Mr. Stick jumped to his feet, as white as a sheet.
"Well, if it isn't sheep now!" he said. "What's up? What's in these 'ere dungeons? I never did likethem."
"Baa-baa-baa-aa-AAAAAAAAAA!' went the mournful bleats all round and about. And then Georgestarted her whinnying and neighing, just like an impatient horse. The little girl tossed her head in thedarkness and hrrrumphed exactly like a horse and then she stamped with her foot, and 75at once the echoes stamped too, sending the whinnying and neighing and stamping into Sticks'
cave twenty times louder than George had made them.
Poor Stinker began to whine pitifully. He was frightened almost out of his life. He pressed himselfagainst the floor as if he would like to disappear into it. Edgar clutched his mother's arm.
"Let's go up," he said. "I can't stay here. There's hundreds of sheep and horses and cows roamingthese dungeons, you can hear them. They're not real, but they've got voices and hoofs, and I'm scaredof them."
Mr. Stick went to the door of the room they were in, and shouted loudly.
"Get out, you! Clear out! Whoever you are!"George giggled. Then she shouted out in a very deep, hoarse voice.
"BE-WARE!" And the echoes thundered out all round.
"WARE! 'WARE! "WARE-ARE-ARE!"
Mr. Stick went back quickly into the cave-room, and lit another candle. He shut the big wooden doorthat led into the room. His hands were shaking.
"Queer goings-on," he said. "Shan't stay here much longer if we get this kind of thing happeningevery night."
Julian, Dick and George were now in such a state of giggles that they could not imitate any morecows, horses or sheep. George did begin to be a pig, and gave such a realistic snort and grunt thatDick nearly died of laughing. The snorts and grunts were echoed everywhere.
"Come out" gasped Julian, at last. "I shall burst with trying not to laugh. Come out!""Come out!" whispered the echoes. "Come out, out, out!"They stumbled out, stuffing hankies into their mouths as they went, following Julian's chalk-markseasily by the light of his torch. It was impossible to take the wrong passage if they followed hisguiding-lines.
They sat on the dungeon steps with Anne and Timmy, and choked with laughter as they related allthey had done. "We heard old Stick yelling to us to clear out," said George, "and he sounded scaredstiff. As for Stinker, we never heard even the smallest growl from him. I bet the Sticks will clear offtomorrow after this! It must have given them a most terrible fright.""Oh, that was grand!" said Julian. "It was a pity I began to laugh. I was just feeling I might trumpetlike an elephant next. The echoes would like that!"76
"Funny the Sticks all staying on the island like this," said Dick, thoughtfully. "They've left KirrinCottage - but they're not looking for us. They must be in league with the smugglers all right.
Perhaps that's why Mrs. Stick took the job with your mother, George - to be near the island when thetime came - when the smugglers wanted their help.""We could really go back to Kirrin Cottage, couldn't we?" said Anne, who, much as she loved theisland, was not nearly so keen on it now that the Sticks were there.
"Go back! Leave an adventure just when it's beginning!" said George, scornfully. "How silly you are,Anne. Go back if you want to - but I'm sure nobody will go with you.""Oh, Anne will stay with us all right," said Julian, knowing that Anne would feel hurt at thesuggestion she should leave them. "It will be the Sticks who have to go, don't worry!""Let's go back to the cave," said Anne, thinking longingly of its safety and bright little candle.
They got up and made their way across the courtyard to the little wall that ran round the castle.
They climbed over it and turned their steps to the cliff. Julian switched on his torch when he thoughtit was safe, for it was impossible to see clearly in the dark, and he did not want any of them to falldown the hole, instead of climbing down properly by the rope.
Julian stood by the hole at last, shining his torch so that the others might climb down the rope insafety, one by one. He glanced up, looking over the dark sea, as he stood there, and then staredintently.
There was a light out to sea, and it was signalling. It must have seen his torchlight! Julian watched,wondering if it was a ship that was signalling, and how far out it was, and why it was signalling.
"Perhaps they're going to put more stuff into the old wreck for the Sticks to find," he thought. "Iwonder if they are. How I'd like to find out - but it would be dangerous to go there in daylight in casethe Sticks see us."
The signalling went on for a long time, as if a message was being flashed. Julian could not for the lifeof him make out what it was. It simply looked like the flash-flash-flash of a lantern to him. But itmust mean a signal or message of some sort to the Sticks.
"Well, they won't get it tonight!" thought Julian, with a chuckle, when at last the signalling stopped.
"I rather think the Stick family will stay where they are tonight, too scared of sheep and cows andhorses rushing about in those dungeons!"
77
Julian was quite right - the Sticks did stay where they were! Nothing would get them out of theirunderground room till morning.
16.






























































Chapter Seventeen A SHOCK FOR EDGAR
Chapter Seventeen A SHOCK FOR EDGAR
THE children slept well that night, and as Timothy did not growl at all, they were sure that nothingimportant could have happened. They had a fine breakfast of tongue, tinned peaches, bread andbutter, golden syrup and ginger-beer.
"That's the end of the ginger-beer, I'm afraid," said Julian, regretfully. "I must say ginger-beer is agorgeous drink - seems to go with simply everything.""That was the nicest meal I've ever had," said Anne. "It really was. We do have lovely meals onKirrin Island. I wonder if the Sticks are having nice meals too.""You bet they are!" said Dick. "I expect they have ransacked Aunt Fanny's cupboards and taken thebest they can find."
"Oh, the beasts!" said George, her eyes flashing. "I never thought of that - they may have robbed thehouse and taken all kinds of things."
"They probably have," said Julian, and he frowned. "I say, I never thought of that, somehow.
How awful, George, if your mother came back, feeling ill and weak, and found half her belongingsgone!"
"Oh dear!" said Anne, dismayed. "George, wouldn't that be dreadful?""Yes," said George, looking very angry. "I would believe anything of those Sticks! If they have thecheek to come to our island and live here, they've the cheek to steal from my mother's house.
I wish we could find out."
They could have brought quite a lot of things away in their boat," said Julian. "They must have comehere by boat. If they did bring stolen goods, they must have put them somewhere - down in thedungeons, I suppose."
"We might have a look round and see if we can spy anything, without the Sticks seeing us,"suggested Dick.
78
"Let's have a look round now," said George, who always liked doing things at once. "Anne, you dothe washing up and tidy our cave-house for us, will you?"Anne was torn between wanting to go with the others, and longing to play "house" again. She did solove arranging everything and making the beds and tidying up the cave. In the end she said she wouldstay and the others could go.
So up the rope they went. Timothy stayed with Anne, because they were afraid he might bark.
Anne tied him up, and he whined a little, but did not make a terrible noise.
The other three lay flat on the cliff-top, looking down on the ruined castle. There seemed to be no oneabout, but, even as they watched, the three Sticks appeared, apparently coming up from thedungeons. They seemed glad to be in the sunshine, and the children were not surprised, for thedungeons were so cold and dark.
The Sticks looked all round. Stinker kept close to Mrs. Stick, his tail well down.
"They're looking for the cows and sheep and horses they heard down in the dungeons last night!"whispered Dick to Julian.
The Sticks spoke together for a minute or two, and then went off in the direction of the shore thatfaced the wreck. Edgar went to the room in which the children had first planned to sleep - the onewhose roof had fallen in.
"I'm going to stalk the two Sticks," whispered Julian to the others. "You two see what Edgar is up to."Julian disappeared, keeping behind bushes as he watched where the Sticks went, and followed them.
George and Dick went cautiously and quietly over the cliff to the castle in the middle of the littleisland. They could hear Edgar whistling. Stinker was running about the courtyard of the castle.
Edgar appeared out of the ruined room, carrying a pile of cushions, which had evidently been storedthere. George went red with rage and clutched Dick's arm fiercely.
"Mother's best cushions!" she whispered. "Oh, the beasts!"Dick felt angry too. It was quite plain that the Sticks had helped themselves to anything handy whenthey had left Kirrin Cottage. He picked up a clod of earth, took careful aim, and flung it into the air. Itfell between Edgar and Stinker, breaking into a shower of earth.
Edgar dropped the cushions, and looked up into the air in fright. It was plain that he thoughtsomething had fallen from the sky. George picked up another clod, took aim, and flung it high 79into the air. It fell all over Stinker, and the dog gave a yelp, and scuttled down the hole that led intothe dungeons.
Edgar looked up into the sky and then all round and about him, his mouth wide open. What could behappening? Dick waited until he was looking in the opposite direction, and then once more sent a bigclod into the air. It fell into bits and scattered itself all over the startled Edgar.
Then Dick gave one of his realistic moos, exactly like a cow in pain, and Edgar stood rooted to thespot, almost frightened out of his skin. Those cows again! Where were they?
Dick mooed again, and Edgar gave a yell, found his feet, and almost fell down the dungeon steps. Hedisappeared with a dismal howl, leaving behind all the cushions on the ground.
"Quick!" said Dick, jumping to his feet. "He won't be back for a few minutes, anyhow. He'll be tooscared. Let's grab the cushions and bring them here. I don't see why the Sticks should use them downin those awful old dungeons."
The two children raced to the courtyard, picked up the cushions and raced back to their hiding-place.
Dick looked across to the room where Edgar had brought them from.
"What about slipping across there and seeing what else they've stored away?" he said. "I don't seewhy they should be allowed to have anything that isn't theirs.""I'll go across, and you keep watch by the dungeon entrance," said George. "You've only got to mooagain if you see Edgar, and he'll run for miles.""Right," said Dick, with a grin, and went swiftly to the flight of steps that led underground to thedungeons. There was no sign of Edgar at all, nor of Stinker.
George went to the ruined room and gazed round in anger. Yes, the Sticks certainly had helpedthemselves to her mother's things, no doubt about that! There were blankets and silver and all kindsof food. Mrs. Stick must have gone into the big cupboard under the stairs and taken out variousthings stored there for weekly use.
George ran to Dick. "There are heaps of our things!" she said, in a fierce whisper. "Come and helpme to get them. We'll see if we can take them all before Edgar appears, or the Sticks come back."Just as they were whispering together, they heard a low whistle. They looked round, and saw Juliancoming along. He joined them.
80
"The Sticks have rowed off to the wreck," he said. "They've got an old boat somewhere down amongthose rocks. Old Pa Stick must be a good sailor to be able to take the boat in and out of those awfulhidden rocks."
"Oh, then we've got time to do what we want to do," said Dick, pleased. He hurriedly told Julian ofthe things George had seen in the ruined room.
"Awful thieves!" said Julian, indignantly. "They don't mean to go back to Kirrin Cottage, that's plain.
They've got some business on with the smugglers here - and when that is done they'll go off with alltheir stolen goods, join a ship somewhere, and get off scot-free.""No, they won't," said George at once. "We are going to get everything and take it to the cave!
Dick's going to keep watch for Edgar at the cave entrance, and you and I, Julian, can quickly carrythe things away. We can drop them down the hole into the cave.""Hurry then!" said Julian. "We must do it before the Sticks return, and I don't expect they'll be long.
They've probably gone to fetch the trunk and anything else in the wreck. You know I saw a light outto sea last night - maybe that's a signal that the smugglers were leaving something in the wreck forthe Sticks to fetch."
George and Julian ran to the ruined room, piled their arms with the goods there, and then ran to hidethem on the cliff, ready to take them to the hole when they had time. It looked as if the Sticks had justtaken whatever was easiest to lay their hands on. They had even got the kitchen clock!
Edgar did not appear at all, so Dick had nothing to do but sit by the steps of the dungeon and watchthe others. After some time Julian and George gave a sigh of relief and beckoned to Dick.
He left his place and went to join them.
"We've got everything now," said Julian. "I'm just going to the cliff-edge to see if the Sticks arereturning yet. If they're not we'll all carry the things to the hole in the roof of the cave."He soon returned. "I can see their boat tied to the wreck," he said. "We're safe for some while yet.
Come on, let's get the things to safety! This really is a bit of luck."They carried the things to the hole and called down it to Anne. "Anne! We've got tons of things to putdown the hole. Stand by to catch!"
Soon all kinds of things came down the hole into the cave! Anne was most astonished. The silver andanything that might be hurt by a fall was first wrapped up in the blankets, and then let down by arope.
81
"My goodness!" said Anne. "This cave will really look like a house soon, when I have arranged allthese things too!"
Just as they were finishing their job the children heard voices in the distance.
"The Sticks are back!" said Julian, and looked cautiously over the cliff-top. He was right. They hadreturned to their boat, and were even now on their way back to the castle, carrying the trunk from thewreck.
"Let's follow them, and see what happens when they find everything gone," grinned Julian.
"Come on, everyone!"
They wriggled over the cliff on their tummies, and came to a clump of bushes behind which theycould hide and watch. The Sticks put the trunk down, and looked round for Edgar. But Edgar wasnowhere to be seen.
"Where's that boy?" said Mrs. Stick, impatiently. "He's had plenty of time to do everything.
Edgar! Edgar! Edgar!"
Mr. Stick went to the ruined room and peeped inside. He came back to Mrs. Stick.
"He's taken everything down," he said. "He must be down in the dungeon. That room's quite empty.""I told him to come up and sit in the sun when he'd finished," said Mrs. Stick. "It isn't healthy downin them dungeons. EDGAR!"
This time Edgar heard, and his head appeared, looking out of the entrance to the dungeon. He lookedextremely scared.
"Come on up!" said Mrs. Stick. "You've got all the things down, and you'd better stay up here in thesunshine now."
"I'm scared," said Edgar. "I'm not staying up here alone.""Why not?" said Mr. Stick, astonished.
"It's those cows again!" said poor Edgar. "Hundreds of them, Pa, all a- mooing round me, andthrowing things at me. They're dangerous animals, they are, and I'm not coming up here alone!"
17.





























































Chapter Eighteen AN UNEXPECTED PRISONER
Chapter Eighteen AN UNEXPECTED PRISONER
THE Sticks stared at Edgar as if he was mad.
"Cows throwing things?" said Mrs. Stick at last. "What do you mean by that? Cows don't throwanything."
"These ones did," said Edgar, and then began to exaggerate in order to make his parents sympathisewith him. "They were dreadful cows, they were - hundreds of them, with horns as long as reindeer,and awful mooing voices. And they threw things at me and Tinker. Proper scared he was, and so wasI. I dropped the cushions I was taking down, and rushed away to hide.""Where are the cushions?" said Mr. Stick, looking round. "I can't see any cushions. I suppose you'lltell us the cows ate them."
"Didn't you take everything down into the dungeons?" demanded Mrs. Stick. "Because that room'sempty now. There's not a thing in it."
"I didn't take anything down at all," said Edgar, coming cautiously out of the dungeon entrance.
"I dropped the cushions just about where you're standing. What's happened to them?""Look 'ere!" said Mr. Stick, in amazement. "Who's been 'ere since we've been gone? Someone's takenthe cushions and everything else too. Where have they put them?""Pa, it was them cows," said Edgar, looking all round as if he expected to see cows walking off withcushions and silver and blankets.
"Shut up about them cows," said Mrs. Stick, suddenly losing her temper. "For one thing there aren'tany cows on this island, and that we do know, for we looked all over it this morning. What we heardlast night must have been queer sort of echoes rumbling round. No, my boy - there's something funnyabout all this. Looks as if there is somebody on the island!"A dismal howl came echoing up from below the ground. It was Stinker, terrified at being alonebelow, and not daring to come up.
"Poor lamb!" said Mrs. Stick, who seemed much fonder of Stinker than of anyone else.
"What's up with him?"
Stinker let out an even more doleful howl, and Mrs. Stick hurried down the steps to go to him.
Mr. Stick followed her, and Edgar lost no time in going after them.
83
"Quick!" said Julian, standing up. "Come with me, Dick. We may just have time to get that trunk!
Run!"
The two boys ran quickly down to the courtyard of the ruined castle. Each took a handle of the smalltrunk, and lifted it between them. They staggered back to George with it.
"We'll take it to the cave," whispered Julian. "You stay here a few minutes and see what happens."The boys went over the cliff with the trunk. George flattened herself behind her bush and watched.
Mr. Stick appeared again in a few minutes, and looked round for the trunk. His mouth fell open inastonishment when he saw that it was gone. He yelled down the entrance to the dungeon.
"Clara! The trunk's gone!"
Mrs. Stick was already on her way up, with Stinker close beside her and Edgar just behind. Sheclimbed out and stared round.
"Gone?" she said, in enormous surprise. "Gone? Where's it gone?""That's what I'd like to know!" said Mr. Stick. "We leave it here a few minutes - and then it goes.
Walks off by itself - just like all the other things!""Look here! There's someone on this island," said Mrs. Stick. "And I'm going to find out who it is.
Got your gun, Pa?"
"I have," said Mr. Stick, slapping his belt. "You get a good stout stick too, and we'll take Tinker.
If we don't ferret out whoever's trying to spoil our plans, my name's not Stick!"George slipped away quietly to warn the others. Before she slid down the rope into the cave, shepulled several bramble sprays across the hole. She dropped down to the floor of the cave, and told theothers what had happened.
Julian had been trying to open the trunk, but it was still locked. He looked up as George panted outher tale.
"We'll be all right here so long as no one falls down that hole in the roof!" he said. "Now keep quieteveryone, and don't you dare to growl, Timmy!"Nothing was heard for some time, and then Stinker's bark came in the distance. "Quiet now,"said Julian. "They are near here."
The Sticks were up on the cliff once more, searching carefully behind every bush. They came to thegreat bush behind which the children often hid, and saw the flattened grass there.
84
"Someone's been here," said Mr. Stick. "I wonder if they're in the middle of this bush - it's thickenough to hide half an army! I'll try and force my way in, Clara, while you stand by with my gun."Edgar wandered off by himself while this was happening, feeling certain that nobody would befoolish enough to live in the middle of such a prickly bush. He walked across the cliff - and then, tohis awful horror, he found himself falling! His legs disappeared into a hole, he clutched at somethorny sprays but could not save himself. Down he went, and down and down - and down -crash!
Edgar had fallen down the hole in the roof of the cave. He suddenly appeared before the children'sstartled eyes, and landed in a heap on the soft sand. Timmy at once pounced on him with a fearsomegrowl, but George pulled him off just in time.
Edgar was half-stunned with fright and his fall. He lay on the floor of the cave, groaning, his eyesshut. The children stared at him and then at one another. For a few moments they were completelytaken aback and didn't know what to do or say. Timmy growled ferociously - so ferociously thatEdgar opened, his eyes in fright. He stared round at the four children and their dog in the utmostsurprise and horror.
He opened his mouth to yell for help, but at once found Julian's large hand over it. "Yell just onceand Timmy shall have a bite out of any part of you he likes!" said Julian, in a voice as ferocious asTimothy's growl. "See? Like to try it? Timmy's waiting to bite.""I shan't yell," said Edgar, speaking in such a low whisper that the others could hardly hear him.
"Keep that dog off. I shan't yell."
George spoke to Timothy. "Now you listen, Timothy - if this boy shouts, you just go for him! Liehere by him and show him your big teeth. Bite him wherever you like if he yells.""Woof!" said Timmy, looking really pleased. He lay down by Edgar, and the boy tried to move away.
But Timmy came nearer every time he moved.
Edgar looked round at the children. "What you doing on this island?" he said. "We thought you'dgone home."
"It's our island!" said George, in a very fierce voice. "We've every right to be on it if we want to -but you have no right at all. None! What are you and your father and mother here for?""Don't know," said Edgar, looking sulky.
"You'd better tell us;" said Julian. "We know you're in league with smugglers."85
Edgar looked startled. "Smugglers?" he said. "I didn't know that. Pa and Ma don't tell me anything. Idon't want anything to do with smugglers.""Don't you know any-thing?" said Dick. "Don't you know why you've come to Kirrin Island?""I don't know anything," said Edgar, in an injured tone. "Pa and Ma are mean to me. They never tellme anything. I do as I'm told, that's all. I don't know anything about smugglers, I tell you that."It was quite plain to the children that Edgar really did not know anything of the reasons for hisparents coming to the island. "Well, I'm not surprised they don't let Spotty-Face into their secrets,"said Julian. "He'd blab them if he could, I bet. Anyway, we know it's smuggling they're mixed up in.""You let me go," said Edgar, sullenly. "You got no right to keep me here.""We're not going to let you go," said George at once. "You're our prisoner now. If we let you go backto your parents, you'd tell them all about us, and we don't want them to know we're here.
We're going to spoil their pretty plans, you see."Edgar saw. He saw quite a lot of things. He felt rather sick. "Was it you that took the cushions andthings?"
"Oh no, dear Edgar," said Dick. "It was the cows, wasn't it? Don't you remember how you told yourmother about the hundreds of cows that mooed at you and threw things and stole the cushions youdropped? Surely you haven't forgotten your cows already?""Funny, aren't you?" said Edgar, sulkily. "What you going to do with me? I won't stay here, that'sflat."
"But you will, Spotty-Face," said Julian. "You will stay here till we let you go - and that won't be tillwe've cleared up this little smuggling mystery. And let me warn you that any nonsense on your partwill be punished by Timmy."
"Lot of beasts you are," said Edgar, seeing that he could do nothing but obey the four children.
"My Pa and Ma won't half be furious with you."His Ma and Pa were feeling extremely astonished. There had, of course, been nobody hiding in thebig thick bush, and when Mr. Stick had wriggled out, scratched and bleeding, he had looked roundfor Edgar. And Edgar was not to be seen.
"Where's that dratted boy?" he said, and shouted for him. "Edgar! ED-GAR!"86
But Edgar did not answer. The Sticks spent a very long time looking for Edgar, both above groundand underground. Mrs. Stick was convinced that poor Edgar was lost in the dungeons, and she triedto send Stinker to find him. But Stinker only went as far as the first cave. He remembered the peculiarnoises of the night before and was not at all keen on exploring the dungeons.
Julian turned his attention to the little trunk, once Edgar had been dealt with. "I'm going to open thissomehow," he said. "I'm sure it's got smuggled goods in, though goodness knows what.""You'll have to smash the locks then," said Dick. Julian got a small rock and tried to smash the twolocks. He managed to wrench one open after a while, and then the other gave way too. The childrenthrew back the lid.
On the top was a child's blanket, embroidered with white rabbits. Julian pulled it off, expecting to seethe smuggled goods below. But to his astonishment there were a child's clothes!
He pulled them out. There were two blue jerseys, a blue skirt, some vests and knickers and a warmcoat. At the bottom of the trunk were some dolls and a teddy bear!
"Golly!" said Julian, in amazement. "What are all these for? Why did the Sticks bring these to theisland - and why did the smugglers hide them in the wreck? It's a puzzler!"Edgar appeared to be as astonished as the rest. He too had expected valuable goods of some kind.
George and Anne pulled out the dolls. They were lovely ones. Anne cuddled them up to her. Sheloved dolls, though George scorned them.
"Who do they belong to?" Anne said. "Oh won't she be sad not to have them? Julian, isn't it funny?
Why should anyone bring a trunk full of clothes and dolls to Kirrin Island?"
18.































































Chapter Nineteen A SCREAM IN THE NIGHT
Chapter Nineteen A SCREAM IN THE NIGHT
NOBODY could even guess the answers to Anne's surprised questions. The children stared into thetrunk and puzzled over it. It seemed such a funny thing to smuggle. They remembered the otherthings in the wreck too - the tins of food. They were queer things to smuggle into the island. Theredidn't seem any point in it.
87
"Funny," said Dick, at last. "It beats me. There's no doubt that queer things are afoot here, or theSticks wouldn't be hanging around our island. And we've seen signals from a ship out to Sea.
Something's going on. We thought if we opened this trunk it might help us - but it's only made themystery deeper."
Just then the voices of the two parent Sticks could be heard shouting for Edgar. But Edgar did notdare to shout back. Timmy's nose was poked against his leg. He might be nipped at any time.
Timmy growled every now and again to remind Edgar that he was still there.
"Do you know anything about the ship that signals to this island at night?" asked Julian, turning toEdgar.
The boy shook his head. "Never heard of any signals," he said. "I just heard my mother saying thatshe expected the Roamer tonight, but I don't know what she meant.""The Roamer?" said George, at once. "What's that - a man - or a boat - or what?""I don't know," said Edgar. "I'd only have got a clip on the ear if I'd asked. Find out yourself.""We will," said Julian, grimly. "We'll watch out for the Roamer tonight! Thanks for the information."The children spent a quiet and rather boring day in the cave - all but Anne, who had plenty of thingsto arrange again. Really, the cave looked most home-like when she had finished! She put the blanketson the bed, and used the rugs as carpets. So the cave really looked most imposing!
Edgar was not allowed to go out of the cave, and Timothy didn't leave him for a moment. He sleptmost of the time, complaining that "those cows and things" had frightened him so much the nightbefore that he'd not been able to sleep a wink.
The others discussed their plans in low voices. They decided to keep watch on the cliff-top, two andtwo together, that night. They would wait and see what happened. If the Roamer came, they wouldhurriedly make fresh plans then.
The sun sank. The night came up dark over the sea. Edgar snored softly, after a very good supper ofsardines, pressed beef sandwiches, tinned apricots and tinned milk. Anne and Dick went up to keepthe first watch. It was about half-past ten.
At half-past twelve Julian and George climbed up the knotted rope and joined the other two.
They had nothing to report. They went down into the cave, got into their comfortable beds and wentto sleep. Edgar was snoring away in his corner, Timmy still on guard.
88
Julian and George looked out to sea, watching for any sign of a ship. The moon was up that night,and things were not quite so dark. Suddenly they heard low voices, and saw shadowy figures downby the rocks below.
"The two Sticks," whispered Julian. "Going to row out to the wreck again, I suppose."There was the splash of oars, and the children saw a boat move out over the water. At the same timeGeorge nudged Julian violently and pointed out to sea. A light was being shown a good way out,from a ship that the children could barely see. Then the moon went behind a cloud, and they couldsee nothing for some time.
They watched breathlessly. Was that shadowy ship a good way out the Roamer? Or was the owner ofit the "Roamer'? Were the smugglers at work tonight?
"There's another boat coming - look!" said George. "It must be coming from that ship out to sea.
Now the moon has come out again, you can just see it. It is going to the old wreck. It must be ameeting-place, I should think."
Then, most irritatingly, the moon went behind a cloud again, and remained there so long that thechildren grew impatient. At last it sailed out again and lighted up the water.
"Both boats are leaving the wreck now," said Julian excitedly. "They've had their meeting - andpassed over the smuggled goods, I suppose - and now one boat is returning to the ship, and the other,the Sticks' boat, is coming back here with the goods. We'll follow the Sticks when they get back andsee where they put the goods."
After a long time the Sticks" boat came to shore again. The children could not see anything then, butpresently they saw the Sticks going back towards the castle. Mr. Stick carried what looked like alarge bundle, flung over his shoulder. They could not see if Mrs. Stick carried anything.
The Sticks went into the courtyard of the castle, and came to the dungeon entrance. "They're takingthe smuggled goods down there," whispered Julian to George. The children were now watching frombehind a nearby wall. "We'll go back and tell the others, and make some more plans. We mustsomehow or other get those goods ourselves, and take them back to the mainland and get in touchwith the police!"
Just then a scream rang out in the night. It was a high-pitched, terrified scream, and frightened thewatching children very much. They had no idea where it came from.
89
"Quick! It must be Anne!" said Julian, and the two ran as fast as they could to the hole that led downto the cave. They dropped down the rope and Julian looked round the quiet cave anxiously.
What had happened to Anne to make her scream like that?
But Anne was peacefully asleep on her bed, and so was Dick. Edgar still snored and Timmy watched,his eyes gleaming green.
"Funny," said Julian, still startled. "Awfully queer. Who screamed like that? It couldn't possibly havebeen Anne - because if she had screamed in her sleep like that, she would have wakened the others.""Well, who screamed, then?" said George, feeling rather scared. "Wasn't it weird, Julian? I didn't likeit. It was somebody who was awfully frightened. But who could it be?"They woke Dick and Anne and told them about the strange scream. Anne was very startled. Dick wasinterested to hear that two boats had met at the wreck, and that the Sticks had brought back smuggledgoods of some sort, and taken them down in the dungeons.
"We'll get those tomorrow, somehow!" he said, cheerfully. "We'll have good fun.""Why did you think it was me screaming?" asked Anne. "Did you think it was a girl's scream?""Yes. It sounded like the scream you give when one of us jumps out at you suddenly," said Julian, "Aproper little girl's scream - not a yell, like a boy gives.""It's funny," said Anne. She cuddled down into her bed again, and George got in beside her.
"Oh Anne!" said George, in disgust, "you've got our bed simply full of those dolls - and that teddybear is here too! You really are a baby!""No, I'm not," said Anne. "The dolls and the bear are babies - they are frightened and lonely becausethey're not with the little girl they belong to. So I had them in bed with me instead! I'm sure the littlegirl would be glad."
"The little girl!" said Julian, slowly. "We thought we heard a little girl scream tonight - we found asmall trunk full of a little girl's clothes, and a little girl's dolls. What does it all mean?"There was a silence - and then Anne spoke excitedly. "I know! The smuggled goods are a little girl!
They've stolen a little girl away - and these are her dolls, and those over there are her clothes thatwere stolen at the same time, for her to dress in and play with. The little girl's here, on this island now- you heard her scream tonight when those horrid Sticks carried her down into the dungeons!"90
"Well - I do believe Anne has hit on the right idea," said Julian. "Clever little girl, Anne! I thinkyou're right. It isn't smugglers who are using this island - it's kidnappers!""What are kidnappers?" said Anne.
"People who steal away children or grown-ups and hide them somewhere till a large sum of money ispaid out for them," explained Julian. "It's called a ransom. Till the ransom is paid, the prisoner is heldby the captors."
"Well, that's what's happened here then!" said George.
"I bet it has! Some poor little rich girl has been stolen away - and brought to the wreck by boat fromsome ship - and taken over by those horrible Sticks. Wicked creatures!""And we heard the poor little thing scream just as she was taken down underground," said George.
"Julian, we've got to rescue her."
"Yes, of course," said Julian. "We will, never fear! We'll rescue her tomorrow."Edgar woke up and joined in the conversation suddenly. "What you talking about?" he said.
"Rescue who?"
"Never you mind," said Julian.
George nudged him and whispered.
"All I hope is that Mrs. Stick is feeling as upset about losing her dear Edgar as the mother of the littlegirl," she said.
"Tomorrow we find the little girl somehow, and take her away," said Julian. "I expect the Sticks willbe on guard, but we'll find a way."
"I'm tired now," said George, lying down. "Let's go to sleep. We'll wake up nice and fresh. Oh Anne,do put these dolls your side. I'm lying on at least three."Anne took the dolls and the bear and arranged them on her side of the bed. "Don't feel lonely,"George heard her say. "I'll look after you all right till you go back to your own mistress. Sleep tight!"Soon they all slept - all but Timothy, who lay with one eye open all night long. There was no need toput anyone on guard while Timmy was there. He was the best guardian they could have.
19.






















































Chapter Twenty A RESCUE - AND A NEW PRISONER!
Chapter Twenty A RESCUE - AND A NEW PRISONER!
THE next day Julian was awake early and went up the rope to the cliff-top to see if the Sticks wereabout. He saw them coming up the steps that led from the dungeons. Mrs. Stick looked pale andworried.
"We've got to find our Edgar," she kept saying to Mr. Stick. "I tell you we've got to find our Edgar.
He's not down in the dungeons. That I do know. We've yelled ourselves hoarse down there.""And he's not on the island," said Mr. Stick. "We hunted all over it yesterday. I think whoever washere then, took our goods, caught Edgar, and made off with him and everything else in their boat.
That's what I think."
"Well, they've taken him to the mainland then," said Mrs. Stick. "We'd better take our boat and goback there and ask a few questions. What I'd like to know is - who is it messing about here andinterfering with our plans? It makes me scared. Just when things are going nicely too!""Is it all right to leave here just now?" said Mr. Stick, doubtfully. "Suppose whoever was hereyesterday is still here - they might pop down into the dungeons when we're gone.""Well, they're not here," said Mrs. Stick, firmly. "Use your common sense, if you've got any -wouldn't our Edgar yell the place down if he was being kept prisoner on this little island - andwouldn't we hear him? I tell you he must have been taken off in a boat, together with all the otherthings that are gone. And I don't like it.""All right, all right!" said Mr. Stick in a grumbling tone. "That boy's always a nuisance - always insilly trouble of some sort."
"How can you talk of poor Edgar like that?" cried Mrs. Stick. "Do you think the poor child likesbeing captured! Goodness knows what he's going through - feeling frightened and lonely withoutme."
Julian felt disgusted. Here was Mrs. Stick talking like that about old Spotty-Face - and yet she had alittle girl down in the dungeons - a child much younger than Edgar! What a beast she was.
"What about Tinker?" said Mr. Stick, in a sulky tone. "Better leave him here, hadn't we, to guard theentrance to the dungeons? Not that there will be anyone here, if what you say is right."92
"Oh, we'll leave Tinker," said Mrs. Stick, setting off to the boat. Julian saw them embark, leaving thedog behind. Tinker watched them rowing away, his tail well down between his legs. Then he turnedand ran back to the courtyard, and lay down dolefully in the sun. He was very uneasy. His ears werecocked and he kept looking this way and that. He didn't like this queer island and its unexpectednoises.
Julian tore back to the cave and dropped down the rope, startling Edgar very much. "Come outsidethe cave and I'll tell you my plans," said Julian to the others. He didn't want Edgar to hear them. Theyall went outside.
Anne had got breakfast ready while Julian had been gone, and the kettle was boiling away merrily onthe little stove.
"Listen!" said Julian. "The Sticks have gone off in their boat back to the mainland to see if they canfind their precious little darling Edgar. Mrs. Stick is all hot and bothered because she thinkssomeone's gone off with him and she's afraid the poor boy will be feeling frightened and lonely!""Well!" said George. "Doesn't she think that the little kidnapped girl must be feeling much worse?
What a horrid woman she is!"
"You're right," said Julian. "Well, what I propose to do is this - we'll go down into the dungeons nowand rescue the little girl - and bring her here to our cave for breakfast. Then we'll take her off in ourboat, go to the police, find out where her parents are, and telephone to them that she is safe.""What shall we do with Edgar?" said Anne.
"I know!" said George at once. "We'll put Edgar into the dungeon instead of the little girl! Think howastonished the Sticks will be to find the little girl gone and their dear Edgar shut up in the dungeoninstead!"
"Oooh! - that is a good idea," said Anne, and all the others laughed and agreed.
"You stay here, Anne, and cut some more bread and butter for the little girl," said Julian. He knewthat Anne hated going down into the dungeons.
Anne nodded, pleased.
"All right, I will. I'll just take the kettle off for a bit too, or else the water will boil away."They all went back into the cave. "Come with us, Edgar," said Julian. "You come too, Timmy.""Where're you going to take me?" said Edgar, suspiciously.
"A nice cosy, comfortable place, where cows can't get at you," said Julian. "Come on! Buck up."93
"Gr-r-r-r-r-r," said Timmy, his nose against Edgar's leg. Edgar got up in a hurry.
They all went up the rope, one after another, though Edgar was terribly scared, and was sure hecouldn't. But with Timmy snapping at his ankles below, he climbed up the rope remarkably quickly,and was hauled out at the top by Julian.
"Now, quick march!" said Julian, who wanted to get everything over before the Sticks thought ofreturning. And quick march it was, over the cliffs, over the low wall of the castle, and down into thecourtyard.
"I'm not going down into those dungeons with you," said Edgar, in alarm.
"You are, Spotty-Face," said Julian, amiably.
"Where's my Pa and Ma?" said Edgar, looking anxiously all round.
"Those cows have got them, I expect," said George. "The ones that came and mooed at you and threwthings, you know."
Everyone giggled, except Edgar, who looked worried and pale. He did not like this kind of adventureat all. The children came to the dungeon entrance, and found that the Sticks had not only closed downthe stone that opened the way to the dungeons, but had also dragged heavy rocks across it.
"Blow your parents!" said Julian, to Edgar. "Making a lot of trouble for everybody. Come on, stiryourself - all hands to these stones. Edgar, pull when we pull. Go on! You'll get into trouble if youdon't."
Edgar pulled with the rest, and one by one the rocks were moved away. Then the heavy trapdoorstone was hauled up too, and the flight of steps was exposed leading down into darkness.
"There's Tinker!" suddenly cried Edgar, pointing to a bush some distance away. Tinker was there,hiding, quite terrified at seeing Timothy again.
Fat lot of good Stinker is," said Julian. "No, Timmy - you're not to eat him. Stay here! He wouldn'ttaste nice if you did eat him!"
Timothy was sorry not to be able to chase Stinker round and round the island. If he couldn't chaserabbits, he might at least be allowed to chase Stinker!
They all went down into the dungeons. Julian's white chalk-marks were still on the rocky walls, so itwas easy to find the way to the cave-like room where the children, last summer, had found piles ofgolden ingots. They felt sure that the little kidnapped girl had been put there, for this cave had a bigwooden door that could be bolted on the outside.
94
They came to the door. It was well and truly bolted. There was no sound from inside. Everyonehalted outside and Timmy scratched at the door, whining gently. He knew there was someone inside.
"Hallo, there!" shouted Julian, in a loud and cheerful voice. "Are you all right? We've come to rescueyou."
There was a scrambling noise, as if someone had got up from a stool. Then a small voice soundedfrom the cave.
"Hallo! Who are you? Oh, do please rescue me! I'm so lonely and frightened!""Just undoing the door!" called back Julian, cheerfully. "We're all children out here, so don't beafraid. You'll soon be safe."
He shot back the bolts, and flung open the door. Inside the cave, which was lighted by a lantern,stood a small girl, with a scared little white face, and large dark eyes. Dark red hair tumbled roundher cheeks, and she had evidently been crying bitterly, for her face was dirty and tear-stained.
Dick went to her and put his arm round her. "Everything's all right now," he said. "You're safe.
We'll take you back to your mother."
"I do want her, I do, I do," said the little girl, and tears ran down her cheeks again. "Why am I here? Idon't like being here."
"Oh, it's just an adventure you've had," said. Julian. "It's over now - at least, nearly over. There's stilla bit of it left - a nice bit, though. We want you to come and have breakfast with us in our cave.
We've a lovely cave."
"Oh, have you?" said the little girl, rubbing her eyes. "I want to go with you, I like you, but I didn'tlike those other people."
"Of course you didn't," said George. "Look! This is Timothy, our dog. He wants to be friends withyou."
"What a simply lovely dog!" said the little girl, and flung her arms around Timmy's neck. He lickedher in delight. George was pleased. She put her arm round the little girl.
"What's your name?" she said.
"Jennifer Mary Armstrong," said the little girl. "What's yours?""George," said George, and the little girl nodded, thinking that George was a boy, not a girl, for shewas dressed in jeans just like Julian and Dick, and her hair was short, too, though very curly.
95
The others told her their names - and then she looked at Edgar, who had said nothing.
"This is Spotty-Face," said Julian. "He isn't a friend of ours. It was his father and mother who put youhere, Jennifer. Now we are going to leave him here in your place. It will be such a pleasant surprisefor them, won't it?"
Edgar gave a yell of dismay and tried to back away - but Julian gave him a strong shove that sent himflying into the cave.
"There's only one way to teach people like you and your parents that wickedness doesn't pay!"said the boy, grimly. "And that is to punish you hard. People like you don't understand kindness.
You think it's just being soft and silly. All right - you can have a taste of what Jennifer has had. It willdo you good, and do your parents a lot of good too! Good-bye!"Edgar began to howl dismally as Julian bolted the big wooden door top and bottom. "I shall starve!"he wailed.
"Oh no, you won't," said Julian. "There's plenty of food and water in there, so help yourself. It woulddo you good to go hungry for a while, all the same.""Mind the cows don't get you!" called Dick, and he gave a realistic moo that startled Jennifer verymuch, for the echoes came mooing round too.
"It's all right - only the echoes," said George, smiling at her in the torch-light. Edgar howled away inthe cave, sobbing like a baby.
"Little coward, isn't he?" said Julian. "Come on - let's get back. I'm awfully hungry for my breakfast.""So am I," said Jennifer, slipping her small hand into Julian's. "I wasn't hungry at all in that cave- but now I am. Thank you for rescuing me.""Don't mention it," said Julian, grinning at her. "It's a real pleasure - and an even greater one to putold Spotty-Face there instead of you. Nice to give the Sticks a dose of their own medicine."Jennifer didn't know what he meant, but the others did, and they chuckled. They made their way backthrough the dark, musty passages of the dungeons, passing many caves, big and small, on the way.
They came at last to the flight of steps and went up them into the dazzling sunlight.
"Oh!" said Jennifer, breathing in great gulps of the fresh, sea-smelling air. "Oh! This is lovely!
Where am I?"
"On our island," said George. "And this is our ruined castle. You were brought here last night in aboat. We heard you scream, and that's how we guessed you were being made a prisoner."96
They walked to the cliff, and Jennifer was amazed at the way they disappeared down the knottedrope. She was eager to try too, and soon slid down into the cave.
"Nice kid, isn't she?" said Julian to George. "My word, she's had even more of an adventure than wehave!"
20.












































































Chapter Twenty-One A VISIT TO THE POLICE STATION
Chapter Twenty-One A VISIT TO THE POLICE STATION
ANNE liked Jennifer very much, and gave her a hug and a kiss. Jennifer looked round the well-furnished cave in amazement and wonder - and then she gave a scream of surprise and joy. Shepointed to Anne's neatly-made bed, on which sat a number of beautiful dolls, and a large teddy-bear.
'My dolls!" she said. "Oh, and Teddy, too! Oh, oh, where did you get them? I've missed them so!
Oh Josephine and Angela and Rosebud and Marigold, have you missed me?"She flung herself on the dolls. Anne was very interested to hear their names. "I've looked after themwell," she told Jennifer. "They're quite all right.""Oh, thank you," said the little girl, happily. "I do think you're all nice. Oh, I say - what a lovelybreakfast!"
It was. Anne had opened a tin of salmon, two tins of peaches, a tin of milk, cut some bread andbutter, and made a big jug of cocoa. Jennifer sat down and began to eat. She was very hungry, and asshe ate, she began to lose her paleness and look rosy and happy.
The children talked busily as they ate. Jennifer told them about herself.
"I was playing in the garden with my nurse," she said, "and suddenly, when nurse had gone indoorsto fetch something, a man climbed over the wall, threw a shawl round my head, and took me away.
We live by the sea, you know, and I soon heard the sound of the waves splashing on the shore, and Iknew I was being put into a boat. I was taken to a big ship, and locked down in a cabin for two days.
Then I suppose I was brought here one night. I was so frightened that I screamed."97
"That was the scream we heard," said George. "It was lucky we heard it. We had thought there wassmuggling going on here, in our island - we didn't guess it was a case of kidnapping, till we heardyou scream - though we had found your trunk with your clothes and toys.""I don't know how the man got those," said Jennifer. "Maybe one of our maids helped him. There wasone I didn't like at all. She was called Sarah Stick.'
"Ah!" said Julian, at once. "That's the one, then! It was Mr. and Mrs. Stick who brought you here.
Sarah Stick, your maid, must be some relation of theirs. They must have been in the pay of someoneelse, I should think - someone who had a ship, and could bring you here to hide you.""Jolly good hiding-place, too," said George. "No one but us would ever have found it out."They ate all their breakfast, made some more cocoa, and discussed their future plans.
"We'll take our boat and go to the mainland this morning," said Julian. "We'll go straight to thepolice-station with Jennifer. I expect the newspapers are full of her disappearance, and the police willrecognise her at once."
"I hope they catch the Sticks," said George. "I hope they won't disappear into thin air as soon as theyhear that Jennifer is found."
"Yes - we must warn the police of that," said Julian, thoughtfully. "Better not spread the news abroadtill the Sticks are caught. I wonder where they are.""Let's get the boat now," said Dick. "There's no point in waiting about. Jennifer's parents will bethrilled to know she is safe."
"I don't really want to leave this lovely cave," said Jennifer, who was thoroughly enjoying herselfnow. "I wish I lived here, too. Are you going to come back to the island and live here, Julian?""Well, we shall come back for a few days more, I expect," said Julian. "You see, our aunt's home isempty at the moment because she is away ill and our uncle is with her. So we might as well stay onour island till they come back."
"Oh, could I come back with you?" begged Jennifer, her small round face alight with joy at thethought of living in a cave on an island with these nice children and their lovely dog. "Oh, do let me!
I would so like it. And I do so love Timmy.""I don't expect your parents would let you, especially after you've just been kidnapped," said Julian.
"But you can ask them, if you like."
98
They all went to the boat and got in. Julian pushed off. George steered the boat in and out of therocks. They saw the wreck, which interested Jenny very much indeed. She badly wanted to stop, butthe others thought they ought to get to land as quickly as possible.
Soon they were near the beach. Alf, the fisher-boy was there. He saw them and waved. He ran to helpthem to pull in their boat.
"I was coming out in my boat this morning," he said. "Your father's back, Master George. But notyour mother. She's getting better, they say, and will be back in a week's time.""Well, what's my father come back for?" demanded George, in surprise.
"He got worried because nobody answered the telephone," explained Alf. "He came down and askedme where you all were. I didn't tell him, of course. I kept your secret. But I was just coming out towarn you this morning. He got back last night - and wasn't he wild? No one there to give him anyfood - all the house upside down and half the things gone! He's at the police station now.""Golly!" said George. "That's just where we are going too! We shall meet him there. Oh dear, I dohope he won't be in an awful temper. You just can't do anything with my father when he's cross.""Come on!" said Julian. "It's a good thing, in a way, that your father is here, George - we can explaineverything to him and to the police at the same time."They left Alf, who looked very surprised to see Jennifer with the others. He couldn't make out whereshe had come from. Certainly she had not started out to the island with them - but she had come backin their boat. How was that? It seemed very mysterious to Alf.
The children arrived at the police station and marched in, much to the surprise of the policeman there.
"Hallo!" he said. "What's the matter? Been doing a burglary, or something, and come to own up?""Listen!" said George, suddenly, hearing a loud voice in the room next to theirs. "That's Father'svoice!"
She darted to the door. The policeman called to her, shocked. "Now don't you go in there. TheInspector's in there. Come over here special, he has, and mustn't be interrupted."But George had flung open the door and gone inside. Her father turned and saw her. He rose to hisfeet. "George! Where have you been? How dare you go away like this and leave the house 99and everything! It's been robbed right and left! I've just been telling the Inspector about all the thingsthat have been stolen."
"Don't worry, Father," said George. "Really don't worry. We've found them all. How's Mother?""Better, much better," said her father, still looking amazed and angry. "Thank goodness I can go backand tell her where you are. She kept asking me about you all, and I had to keep saying you were allright, so as not to worry her - but I hadn't any idea what was happening to you or where you hadgone. I feel very displeased with you. Where were you?""On the island," said George, looking rather sulky, as she often did when her father was angry withher. "Julian will tell you all about it."Julian came in, followed by Dick, Anne, Jennifer and Timothy. The Inspector, a big, clever-lookingman with dark eyes under shaggy eyebrows, looked at them all closely. When he saw Jennifer, hestared hard - and then suddenly rose to his feet.
"What's your name, little girl?" he said.
"Jennifer Mary Armstrong," said Jenny, in a surprised voice.
"Bless us all!" said the Inspector, in a startled voice. "Here's the child the whole country is lookingfor - and she walks in here as cool as a cucumber! Lands sakes, where did she come from?""What do you mean?" said George's father, looking surprised. "What child is the whole countrylooking for? I haven't read the papers for some days.""Then you don't know about little Jenny Armstrong being kidnapped?" said the Inspector, sittingdown and pulling Jenny near him. "She's the daughter of Harry Armstrong, the millionaire, youknow. Well, somebody kidnapped her and wants a hundred thousand pounds ransom for her. Myword, we've combed the country for her - and here she is, as merry as you please. Well, I'm blessed -this is the queerest thing I ever knew. Where have you been, little Missy?""On the island," said Jenny. "Julian - you tell it all."So Julian told the whole story from beginning to end. The policeman from outside came in, and tooknotes down as he spoke. Everyone listened in amazement. As for George's father, his eyes nearly fellout of his head. What adventures these children did have, to be sure and how well they managedeverything!
100
"And do you happen to know who was the owner of the ship that brought little Miss Jenny along- the one that sent a boat off to the wreck and put her there for the Sticks to take?" asked theInspector.
"No," said Julian. "All we heard was that the Roamer was coming that night.""A-HA!" said the Inspector, with great satisfaction in his voice. "Aha and oho! We know the Roamerall right - a ship we've been watching for some time - owned by somebody we're very, verysuspicious of - we think he's dabbling in a whole lot of shady deals. Now this is very good newsindeed. The thing is - where are the Sticks - and how can we catch them red-handed, now you've gotMiss Jenny out of their clutches? They'll probably deny everything.""I know how we could catch them," said Julian, quickly. "We've left their nasty son, Edgar, locked inthe same dungeon where they put Jenny. If only one of us could pass the word to the Sticks, that thatis where Edgar is, they'd go back to the island all right, and go right into the dungeons - so if youfound them there, it wouldn't be much good them denying that they don't know anything about theisland, and have never been there."
"That would certainly make things a lot easier," said the Inspector. He pressed a bell and anotherpoliceman came into the room. The Inspector gave him a full description of Mr. and Mrs. Stick, andtold him to watch the countryside round about, and report when they were found.
"Then, Master Julian, you might like to go and have a little conversation with them about their son,Edgar," said the Inspector, smiling. "If they do go back to the island, we shall follow them, and get allthe evidence we want. Thank you for your very great help. Now we must telephone to Miss Jenny'sparents and tell them she is safe."
"She can come back to Kirrin Cottage with us," said George's father, still looking rather dazed at allthat had happened. "'I've got Joanna, our old cook, to come back for a while to put things straight, sothere will be someone there to see to the children. They must all come back.""Well, Father," said George, firmly, "we will come back just for today, but we plan to spend anotherweek on Kirrin Island till Mother comes back. She said we could, and we are having such a fine timethere. Let Joanna stay at Kirrin Cottage and keep it in order and get it ready for Mother when shecomes home - she won't want the bother of looking after us too. We can look after ourselves on theisland."
"I certainly think these children deserve a reward for the good work they have done," remarked theInspector, and that settled the matter.
101
"Very well," said George's father, "you can all go off to the island again - but you must be back whenyour Mother returns, George."
"Of course I will," said George. "I badly want to see Mother. But home isn't nice without her. I wouldrather be on our island."
"And I want to be there, too," said Jenny, unexpectedly. "Ask my parents to come to Kirrin, please -so that I can ask them if I can go with the other children.""I'll do my best," said the Inspector, grinning at the five children. They liked him very much.
George's father stood up.
"Come along!" he said. "I want my lunch. All this has made me feel hungry. We'll go and see ifJoanna has got anything for us."
Off they all went, talking nineteen to the dozen, making George's poor father feel quite bewildered.
He always seemed to get into the middle of some adventure when these children were about!
21.



























































Chapter Twenty-Two BACK TO KIRRIN ISLAND!
Chapter Twenty-Two BACK TO KIRRIN ISLAND!
SOON everyone was at Kirrin Cottage. Joanna, the old cook they had had before, gave them a goodwelcome, and listened to their adventures in astonishment, getting the lunch ready all the while.
It was while they were having lunch that Julian, looking out of the window, suddenly caught sight ofa figure he knew very well - someone skulking along behind the hedge.
"Old Pa Stick!" he said, and jumped up. "I'll go after him. Stay here, everyone."He went out of the house, ran round a corner and came face to face with Mr. Stick.""Do you want to know where Edgar is?" said Julian mysteriously.
Mr. Stick looked startled. He stared at Julian not knowing what to say.
"He's down in the dungeons, locked in that cave," said Julian, even more mysteriously.
"You don't know nothin' about Edgar," said Mr. Stick. "Where have you been? Didn't you go home?""Never you mind," said Julian. "But if you want to find Edgar - look in that cave!"102
Mr. Stick gave the boy a glare and left him. Julian hurried indoors and rang up the police station.
He felt sure that Mr. Stick would tell Mrs. Stick what he had said, and that Mrs. Stick would insist ongoing back to the island to see if what he had said was true. So all that needed to be done was for thepolice to keep a watch on the boats along the shore and see when the Sticks left.
The children finished their dinner, and Uncle Quentin announced that he must return to his wife, whowould want to know his news. "I'll tell her you are having a fine time on the island," he said,"and we can tell her all the extraordinary details when she returns home, better."He left in a car, and the children wondered whether they might now return to their island or not.
But they decided to wait a little, for they did not know what to do with Jennifer.
Very soon a large car drove up and stopped outside the gate of Kirrin Cottage. Out jumped a tall manwith dark red hair, and a pretty woman. "They must be your father and mother, Jenny," said Julian.
They were - and Jennifer got so many hugs and kisses that she quite lost her breath. She had to tellher story again and again, and her father could not thank Julian and the others enough for all they haddone.
"Ask me for any reward you like!" he said, "and you can have it. I shall never, never be able to tellyou how grateful I am to you for rescuing our little Jenny.""Oh - we don't want anything, thank you," said Julian, politely. "We enjoyed it all very much.
We like adventures."
"Ah, but you must tell me something you want!" said Jenny's father.
Julian glanced round at the others. He knew that none of them wanted a reward. Jenny nudged himhard and nodded her head vigorously. Julian laughed.
"Well," he said, "there is one thing we'd all like very much.""It's granted before you ask it!" said Jenny's father.
"Will you let Jenny come and spend a week with us on our island?" said Julian. Jenny gave a squealand pressed Julian's arm very hard between her two small hands.
Jenny's parents looked rather taken-aback. "Well," said her father, "well - she's just been kidnapped,you know - and we don't feel inclined to let her out of our sight at the moment -and..."
103
"You promised Julian you'd grant what he asked, you promised, Daddy," said Jenny, urgently.
"Oh please do let me. I've always wanted to live on an island. And this one has got a perfectlymarvellous cave, and a wonderful ruined castle, and the dungeons where I was kept, and -""And we take Timothy, our dog, with us," said Julian. "See what a big powerful fellow he is -nobody could come to much harm with Timmy about - could they, Tim?""Woof!" said Timothy, in his deepest voice.
"Well, you can go, Jenny, on one condition," said the little girl's father at last, "and that is that I andyour mother, come over tomorrow and spend the day on the island, to see that everything is all rightfor you."
"Oh, thank you, thank you, Daddy!" cried Jenny, and danced round the room in delight. A wholeweek on the island with these new friends of hers, and Timmy the dog! What could be lovelier?
"Jenny can stay here the night, can't she?' said George. "You'll be staying at the hotel, I suppose?"Soon Jenny's parents left and went to the police station to get all the details of the kidnapping.
The children went to see if Joanna was going to make cakes for tea.
Just about tea-time there came a knocking at the door. A large policeman stood outside.
"Is Master Julian here?" he said. "Oh, you're the boy we want, sir. The Sticks have just left for theisland in their boat, and we've got ours on the beach to follow. But we don't think we know the wayin and out of those hidden rocks that lie all round Kirrin Island. Could you or Miss Georgina guideus, do you think?"
"I'm Master George, not Miss Georgina," said George, in a cold voice.
"Sorry, sir," said the policeman, with a grin. "Well, could you come too?""We'll all come!" said Dick, jumping up. "I want to go back to the dear old island and sleep in ourcave again tonight. Why should we miss a single night? We can fetch Jenny's people tomorrow in ourown boat. We'll all come."
The policeman was a little doubtful about the arrangement, but the children insisted, and as there wasno time to waste, they all ended in crowding into the two boats, with three big policemen, George andJulian leading the way in their own boat. Timmy lay down at George's feet as usual.
George guided the boat as cleverly as ever, and soon they landed in the usual little sandy cove.
The Sticks had evidently gone round by the wreck as usual, and landed on the rockier part.
104
"Now, no noise," said Julian, warningly. They all went quietly towards the ruin, and came into thecourtyard. There was no sign of the Sticks.
"We'll go down underground," said Julian. "I've got my torch. I expect the Sticks are down therealready, letting out dear Edgar."
They went down the steps into the dark dungeons. Anne went too, this time, holding on to the handof one of the big policemen. They moved quietly through the long, dark, winding passages.
They came at last to the door of the cave in which they had imprisoned Edgar. It was still bolted atthe top and bottom!
"Look!" said Julian, in a whisper, shining his torch on to the door. "The Sticks haven't been downhere yet."
"Sh!" said George, as Timmy growled softly. "There's someone coming. Hide! It's the Sticks, Iexpect."
They all hid behind the wall that ran near by. They could hear footsteps coming nearer, and then thevoice of Mrs. Stick raised in anger.
"If my Edgar's locked in there, I'll have something to say about it! Locking up a poor innocent boylike that. I don't understand it. If he's there, where's the girl? You answer me that. Where's the girl?
It's my belief that the boss has done some double-crossing to do us out of our share of the money.
Didn't he say that he'd give us a thousand pounds if we kept Jenny Armstrong for a week? Now Ithink he must have sent someone to this island, played tricks on us, taken the girl himself and lockedup our Edgar."
"You may be right, Clara," said Mr. Stick, his voice coming nearer and nearer. "But how did this boyJulian know where Edgar was? There's a lot I don't understand about all this."Now the Sticks were right at the door of the cave, with Stinker at their heels. Stinker smelt the othersin hiding and whined in fear. Mr. Stick kicked him.
"Stop it! It's enough to hear our own voices echoing away all round without your whines too!"Mrs. Stick was calling out loudly: "Edgar! Are you there? Edgar!""Ma! Yes, I'm here!" yelled Edgar. "Let me out, quick! I'm proper scared. Let me out!"Mrs. Stick undid the bolts at once and flung open the door. By the light of the lantern in the cave shesaw Edgar. He ran to her, half-crying.
105
"Who put you here?" demanded Mrs. Stick. "You tell your Pa and he'll knock their heads off, won'tyou, Pa? Putting a poor frightened child into a dark cave like this. It's a wicked thing to do!"Suddenly the Stick family had the fright of their lives - for a large policeman stepped out of theshadows, torch in one hand and notebook in the other!
"Ah!" said the policeman, in a deep voice. "You're right, Clara Stick. To shut up a poor frightenedchild in that cave is a wicked thing to do - and that's what you did, isn't it? You put Jenny Armstrongthere! She's only a little girl. This boy of yours knew he wasn't coming to any harm - but that littlegirl was scared to death!"
Mrs. Stick stood there, opening and shutting her mouth like a goldfish, not finding a word to say.
Mr. Stick squealed like a rat caught in a corner.
"We're copped! It's a trap, that's it. We're copped!"Edgar began to cry, sobbing like a four-year-old. The other children felt disgusted with him. TheSticks suddenly caught sight of all the children when Julian switched on his torch.
"Snakes alive, there's all the children - and there's Jenny Armstrong too!" said Mr. Stick, in a tone ofthe greatest amazement. "What's all this? What's happening? Who shut up Edgar?""We'll tell you the answers when we get to the police station," said the big policeman. "Now, are youcoming quietly?"
The Sticks went quietly, Edgar sobbing away to himself. He imagined his mother and father inprison, and he himself sent to a hard and difficult school, not allowed to see his mother for years.
Not that that would matter, for the Sticks, both mother and father, were no good to Edgar, and hadtaught him nothing but bad things. There might be a chance for the wretched boy if he were keptaway from them, and set a good example instead of a bad one.
"We shan't be coming back with you," said Julian, politely, to the policeman. "We're staying here thenight. You could go back in the Sticks' boat. They know the way all right. Take their dog with you.
There he is - Stinker, we call him." Then he added, "I guess your colleagues could follow in thepolice boat!"
The Sticks' boat was found and the policeman, the two grown-up Sticks and Edgar got in. Stinkerjumped in too, glad to get away from the glare of Timothy's green eyes.
Julian pushed the boat out. "Good-bye!" he called, and the other children waved goodbye, too.
"Good-bye, Mr. Stick, don't go kidnapping any more children. Good-bye, Mrs. Stick, look after 106Edgar better, in case he gets kidnapped again! Good-bye, Spotty-Face, try and be a better boy!
Good-bye, Stinker, do get a bath as soon as possible. Good-bye!"The policemen grinned and waved. The Sticks said not a word, nor did they wave. They sat sullenand angry, trying to work out in their minds what had happened to make things end up like this.
The boats rounded a high rock and were soon out of sight. "Hurrah!" said Dick. "They've gone -gone for ever! We've got our island to ourselves at last. Come on, Jenny, we'll show you all over it!
What a lovely time we're going to have."
They raced away, happy and carefree, five children and a dog, alone on an island they loved.
And we will leave them there to enjoy their week's happiness. They really do deserve it!
THE END
22.














































1000






















Chapter One BACK TO KIRRIN COTTAGE
Chapter One BACK TO KIRRIN COTTAGE
ONE fine day right at the beginning of the Easter holidays, four children and a dog travelled by traintogether.
'Soon be there now,' said Julian, a tall strong boy, with a determined face.
'Woof,' said Timothy the dog, getting excited, and trying to look out of the window too.
'Get down, Tim,' said Julian, 'Let Anne have a look.'
Anne was his young sister. She put her head out of the window. 'We're coming into Kirrin Station!'
she said. I do hope Aunt Fanny will be there to meet us.'
'Of course she will!' said Georgina, her cousin. She looked more like a boy than a girl, for she woreher hair very short, and it curled close about her head. She too had a determined face, like Julian. Shepushed Anne away and looked out of the window.
'It's nice to be going home,' she said. 'I love school - but it will be fun to be at Kirrin Cottage andperhaps sail out to Kirrin Island and visit the castle there. We haven't been since last summer.'
'Dick's turn to look out now,' said Julian, turning to his younger brother, a boy with a pleasant face,sitting reading in a corner. 'We're just coming into sight of Kirrin, Dick. Can't you stop reading for asecond?'
'It's such an exciting book,' said Dick, and shut it with a clap. 'The most exciting adventure story I'veever read!
'Pooh! I bet it's not as exciting as some of the adventures we've had!' said Anne, at once.
It was quite true that the five of them, counting in Timmy the dog, who always shared everythingwith them, had had the most amazing adventures together. But now it looked as if they were going tohave nice quiet holidays, going for long walks over the cliffs, and perhaps sailing out in George's boatto their island of Kirrin.
'I've worked jolly hard at school this term,' said Julian. 'I could do with a holiday!'
'You've gone thin,' said Georgina. Nobody called her that. They all called her George. She wouldnever answer to any other name. Julian grinned.
'Well, I'll soon get fat at Kirrin Cottage, don't you worry! Aunt Fanny will see to that. She's a greatone for trying to fatten people up. It will be nice to see your mother again, George. She's an awfullygood sort.'
2
'Yes. I hope Father will be in a good temper these holls,' said George. 'He ought to be because he hasjust finished some new experiments, Mother says, which have been quite successful.'
George's father was a scientist, always working out new ideas. He liked to be quiet, and sometimeshe flew into a temper when he could not get the peace he needed or things did not go exactly as hewanted them to. The children often thought that hot-tempered Georgina was very like her father! Shetoo could fly into fierce tempers when things did not go right for her.
Aunt Fanny was there to meet them. The four children jumped out on the platform and rushed to hugher. George got there first. She was very fond of her gentle mother, who had so often tried to shieldher when her father got angry with her. Timmy pranced round, barking in delight. He adoredGeorge's mother.
She patted him, and he tried to stand up and lick her face. 'Timmy's bigger than ever!' she said,laughing. 'Down, old boy! You'll knock me over.'
Timmy was certainly a big dog. All the children loved him, for he was loyal, loving and faithful.
His brown eyes looked from one to the other, enjoying the children's excitement. Timmy shared in it,as he shared in everything.
But the person he loved most, of course, was his mistress, George. She had had him since he was asmall puppy. She took him to school with her each term, for she and Anne went to a boarding-schoolthat allowed pets. Otherwise George would most certainly have refused to go!
They set off to Kirrin in the pony-trap. It was very windy and cold, and the children shivered andpulled their coats tightly round them.
'It's awfully cold,' said Anne, her teeth beginning to chatter. 'Colder than in the winter!'
'It's the wind,' said her aunt, and tucked a rug round her. 'It's been getting very strong the last day ortwo. The fishermen have pulled their boats high up the beach for fear of a big storm.'
The children saw the boats pulled right up as they passed the beach where they had bathed so often.
They did not feel like bathing now. It made them shiver even to think of it.
The wind howled over the sea. Great scudding clouds raced overhead. The waves pounded on thebeach and made a terrific noise. It excited Timmy, who began to bark.
'Be quiet, Tim,' said George, patting him. 'You will have to learn to be a good quiet dog now we arehome again, or Father will be cross with you. Is Father very busy, Mother?'
'Very,' said her mother. 'But he's going to do very little work now as you are coming home.
Would like to go for walks with you, or go out in the boat, if the weather calms down.'
3
The children looked at one another. Uncle Quentin was not the best of companions. He had no senseof humour, and when the children went off into fits of laughter, as they did twenty times a day ormore, he could not see the joke at all.
'It looks as if these holls won't be quite so jolly if Uncle Quentin parks himself on us most of thetime,' said Dick in a low voice to Julian.
'Sh,' said Julian, afraid that his aunt would hear, and be hurt. George frowned.
'Oh Mother! Father will be bored stiff if he comes with us - and we'll be bored too.'
George was very outspoken, and could never learn to keep a guard on her tongue. Her mother sighed.
'Don't talk like that, dear. I daresay your father will get tired of going with you after a bit.
But it does him good to have a bit of young life about him.'
'Here we are!' said Julian, as the trap stopped outside an old house. 'Kirrin Cottage! My word, howthe wind is howling round it, Aunt Fanny!'
'Yes. It made a terrible noise last night,' said his aunt. 'You take the trap round to the back, Julian,when we've got the things out. Oh, here's your uncle to help!'
Uncle Quentin came out, a tall, clever-looking man, with rather frowning eyebrows. He smiled at thechildren and kissed George and Anne.
'Welcome to Kirrin Cottage!' he said. 'I'm quite glad your mother and father are away, Anne, becausenow we shall have you all here once again!'
Soon they were sitting round the table eating a big tea. Aunt Fanny always got ready a fine meal fortheir first one, for she knew they were very hungry after their long journey in the train.
Even George was satisfied at last, and leaned back in her chair, wishing she could manage just onemore of her mother's delicious new-made buns.
Timmy sat close to her. He was not supposed to be fed at meal-times but it was really surprising howmany titbits found their way to him under the table!
The wind howled round the house. The windows rattled, the doors shook, and the mats liftedthemselves up and down as the draught got under them.
'They look as if they've got snakes wriggling underneath them,' said Anne. Timmy watched them, andgrowled. He was a clever dog, but he did not know why the mats wriggled in such a queer way.
'I hope the wind will die down tonight,' said Aunt Fanny. 'It kept me awake last night. Julian dear,you look rather thin. Have you been working hard? I must fatten you up.'
4
The children laughed. 'Just what we thought you'd say, Mother!' said George. 'Goodness, what's that?'
They all sat still, startled. There was a loud bumping noise on the roof, and Timmy put up his earsand growled fiercely.
'A tile off the roof,' said Uncle Quentin. 'How tiresome! We shall have to get the loose tiles seen to,Fanny, when the storm is over, or the rain will come in.'
The children rather hoped that their uncle would retire to his study after tea, as he usually did, but thistime he didn't. They wanted to play a game, but it wasn't much good with Uncle Quentin there. Hereally wasn't any good at all, not even at such a simple game as snap.
'Do you know a boy called Pierre Lenoir!' suddenly asked Uncle Quentin, taking a letter from hispocket. 'I believe he goes to your school and Dick's, Julian.'
Pierre Lenoir - oh you mean old Sooty,' said Julian. 'Yes - he's in Dick's form, sir. Mad as a hatter.'
'Sooty! Now why do you call him that?' said Uncle Quentin. 'It seems a silly name for a boy.'
'If you saw him you wouldn't think so,' said Dick, with a laugh. 'He's awfully dark! Hair as black assoot, eyes like bits of coal, eyebrows that look as if they've been put in with charcoal. And his namemeans "The black one," doesn't it? Le-noir - that's French for black.'
'Yes. Quite true. But what a name to give anyone - Sooty' said Uncle Quentin. 'Well, I've been havingquite a lot of correspondence with this boy's father. He and I are interested in the same scientificmatters. In fact, I've asked him whether he wouldn't like to come and stay with me a few days - andbring his boy, Pierre.'
'Oh really!' said Dick, looking quite pleased. 'Well, it wouldn't be bad sport to have old Sooty here,Uncle. But he's quite mad. He never does as he's told, he climbs like a monkey, and he can be awfullycheeky. I don't know if you'd like him much.'
Uncle Quentin looked sorry he had asked Sooty after he had heard what Dick had to say. He didn'tlike cheeky boys. Nor did he like mad ones.
'H'm,' he said, putting the letter away. 'I wish I'd asked you about the boy first, before suggesting tohis father that he might bring him with him. But perhaps I can prevent him coming.'
'No, don't, Father,' said George, who rather liked the sound of Sooty Lenoir. 'Let's have him. Hecould come out with us and liven things up!'
5
'We'll see,' said her father, who had already made up his mind on no account to have the boy at KirrinCottage, if he was mad, climbed everywhere, and was cheeky. George was enough of a handfulwithout a madcap of a boy egging her on!
Much to the children's relief Uncle Quentin retired to read by himself about eight o'clock. AuntFanny looked at the clock.
'Time for Anne to go to bed,' she said. 'And you too, George.'
'Just one good game of Slap-Down Patience, all of us playing it together, Mother!' said George.
'Come on - you play it too. It's our first evening at home. Anyway, I shan't sleep for ages, with thisgale howling round! Come on, Mother - one good game, then we'll go to bed. Julian's been yawninglike anything already!'
1.




























20
















 

 











Chapter Two A SHOCK IN THE NIGHT
Chapter Two A SHOCK IN THE NIGHT
IT was nice to climb up the steep stairs to their familiar bedrooms that night. All the children wereyawning widely. Their long train journey had tired them.
'If only this awful wind would stop!' said Anne, pulling the curtain aside and looking out into thenight. 'There's a little moon, George. It keeps bobbing out between the scurrying clouds.'
'Let it bob!' said George, scrambling into bed. I'm jolly cold. Hurry, Anne, or you'll catch a chill atthat window.'
'Don't the waves make a noise?' said Anne, still at the window. 'And the gale in the old ash-tree ismaking a whistling, howling sound, and bending it right over.'
'Timmy, hurry up and get on my bed,' commanded George, screwing up her cold toes. 'That's onegood thing about being at home, Anne. I can have Timmy on my bed! He's far better than a hot waterbottle.'
'You're not supposed to have him on your bed at home, any more than you're supposed to at school,'
said Anne, curling up in bed. 'Aunt Fanny thinks he sleeps in his basket over there.'
'Well, I can't stop him coming on my bed at night, can I, if he doesn't want to sleep in his basket?'
said George. 'That's right, Timmy darling. Make my feet warm. Where's your nose? Let me pat it.
Good-night, Tim. Good-night, Anne.'
'Good-night,' said Anne, sleepily. 'I hope that Sooty boy comes, don't you? He does sound fun.'
6
'Yes. And anyway father would stay in with Mr. Lenoir, the boy's father, and not come out with us,'
said George. 'Father doesn't mean to, but he does spoil things somehow.'
'He's not very good at laughing,' said Anne. 'He's too serious.'
A loud bang made both girls jump. 'That's the bathroom door!' said George, with a groan. 'One of theboys must have left it open. That's the sort of noise that drives Father mad! There it goes again!'
'Well, let Julian or Dick shut it,' said Anne, who was now beginning to feel nice and warm. But Julianand Dick were thinking that George or Anne might shut it, so nobody got out of bed to see to thebanging door.
Very soon Uncle Quentin's voice roared up the stairs, louder than the gale.
'Shut that door, one of you! How can I work with that noise going on!'
All four children jumped out of bed like a shot. Timmy leapt off George's bed. Everyone fell overhim as they rushed to the bathroom door. There was a lot of giggling and scuffling. Then UncleQuentin's footsteps were heard on the stairs and the five fled silently to their looms.
The gale still roared. Uncle Quentin and Aunt Fanny came up to bed. The bedroom door flew out ofUncle Quentin's hand and slammed itself shut so violently that a vase leapt off a nearby shelf.
Uncle Quentin leapt too, startled. 'This wretched gale!' he said, fiercely. 'Never known one like it allthe time we've been here. If it gets much worse the fishermen's boats will be smashed up, eventhough they've pulled them as high up the beach as possible.'
'It will blow itself out soon, dear,' said Aunt Fanny, soothingly. 'Probably by the time morning comesit will be quite calm.'
But she was wrong. The gale did not blow itself out that night. Instead it raged round the house evenmore fiercely, shrieking and howling like a live thing. Nobody could sleep. Timmy kept up acontinuous low growling, for he did not like the shakes and rattles and howls.
Towards dawn the wind seemed in a fury. Anne thought it sounded as if it was in a horrible temper,out to do all the harm it could. She lay and trembled, half-frightened.
Suddenly there was a strange noise. It was a loud and woeful groaning and creaking, like someone ingreat pain. The two girls sat up, terrified. What could it be?
The boys heard it too. Julian leapt out of bed and ran to the window. Outside stood the old ash tree,tall and black in the fitful moonlight. It was gradually bending over!
7
'It's the ash! It's falling!' yelled Julian, almost startling Dick out of his wits. 'It's falling, I tell you.
It'll crash on the house! Quick, warn the girls!'
Shouting at the top of his voice, Julian raced out of his door on to the landing. 'Uncle! Aunt!
George and Anne! Come downstairs quickly! The ash tree is falling!'
George jumped out of bed, snatched at her dressing-gown, and raced to the door, yelling to Anne.
The little girl was soon with her. Timmy ran in front. At the door of Aunt Fanny's bedroom UncleQuentin appeared, tall and amazed, wrapping his dressing-gown round him.
'What's all this noise? Julian, what's happening?'
'Aunt Fanny! Come downstairs - the ash tree is falling! Listen to its terrible groans and creaks!'
yelled Julian, almost beside himself with impatience. 'It'll smash in the room and the bedrooms!
Listen, here it comes!'
Everyone fled downstairs as, with an appalling wail, the great ash tree hauled up its roots and fellheavily on to Kirrin Cottage. There was a terrible crash, and the sound of tiles slipping to the groundeverywhere.
'Oh dear!' said poor Aunt Fanny, covering her eyes. 'I knew something would happen! Quentin, weought to have had that ash tree topped. I knew it would fall in a great gale like this. What has it doneto the roof?'
After the great crash there had come other smaller noises, sounds of things falling, thuds and littlesmashing noises. The children could not imagine what was happening. Timmy was thoroughly angry,and barked loudly. Uncle Quentin slapped his hand angrily on the table, and made everyone jump.
'Stop that dog barking! I'll turn him out!' But nothing would stop Timmy barking or growling thatnight, and George at last pushed him into the warm kitchen, and shut the door on him.
'I feel like barking or growling myself,' said Anne, who knew exactly what Timmy felt like.
'Julian, has the tree broken in the roof?'
Uncle Quentin took a powerful torch and went carefully up the stairs to the landing to see whatdamage had been done. He came down looking rather pale.
'The tree has crashed through the attic, smashed the roof in, and wrecked the girls' bedroom,' he said.
'A big branch has penetrated the boys' room too, but not badly, But the girls' room is ruined! Theywould have been killed if they had been in their beds.'
8
Everyone was silent. It was an awful thought that George and Anne had had such a narrow escape.
'Good thing I yelled my head off to warn them, then,' said Julian, cheerfully, seeing how white Annehad gone.
'Cheer up, Anne - think what a tale you'll have to tell at school next term.'
'I think some hot cocoa would do us all good,' said Aunt Fanny, pulling herself together, though shefelt very shaken. 'I'll go and make some. Quentin, see if the fire is still alight in your study.
We want a little warmth!'
The fire was still alight. Everyone crowded round it. They welcomed Aunt Fanny when she came inwith some steaming milk-cocoa.
Anne looked curiously round the room as she sat sipping her drink. This was where her uncle did hiswork, his very clever work. He wrote his difficult books here, books which Anne could notunderstand at all. He drew his queer diagrams here, and made many strange experiments.
But just at the moment Uncle Quentin did not look very clever. He looked rather ashamed, somehow.
Anne soon knew why.
'Quentin, it is a mercy none of us was hurt or killed,' said Aunt Fanny, looking at him rather sternly. Itold you a dozen times you should get that ash tree topped. I knew it was too big and heavy towithstand a great gale. I was always afraid it would blow down on the house.'
'Yes, I know, my dear,' said Uncle Quentin, stirring his cup of cocoa very vigorously. 'But I was sobusy these last months.'
'You always make that an excuse for not doing urgent things,' said Aunt Fanny, with a sigh. 'I shallhave to manage things myself in the future. I can't risk our lives like this!'
'Well, a thing like this would only happen once in a blue moon!' cried Uncle Quentin, getting angry.
Then he calmed down, seeing that Aunt Fanny was really shocked and upset, very near to tears. Heput down his cocoa and slipped his arm round her.
'You've had a terrible shock,' he said. 'Don't you worry about things. Maybe they won't be so badwhen morning comes.'
'Oh, Quentin - they'll be much worse!' said his wife. 'Where shall we sleep tonight, all of us, and whatshall we do till the roof and upstairs rooms are repaired? The children have only just come home. Thehouse will be full of workmen for weeks! I don't know how I'm going to manage.'
9
'Leave it all to me!' said Uncle Quentin. 'I'll settle everything. Don't you worry. I'm sorry about this,very sorry, particularly as it's my fault. But I'll straighten things out for everyone, you just see!'
Aunt Fanny didn't really believe him, but she was grateful for his comforting. The children listened insilence, drinking their hot cocoa. Uncle Quentin was so very clever, and knew so many things - but itwas so like him to neglect something urgent like cutting off the top of the old ash tree. Sometimes hedidn't seem to live in this world at all!
It was no use going up to bed! The rooms upstairs were either completely ruined, or so messed upwith bits and pieces, and clouds of dust, that it was impossible to sleep there. Aunt Fanny began topile rugs on sofas. There was one in the study, a big one in the sitting-room and a smaller one in thedining-room. She found a camp bed in a cupboard and, with Julian's help, put that up too.
'We'll just have to do the best we can,' she said. 'There isn't much left of the night, but we'll get a littlesleep if we can! The gale is not nearly so wild now.'
'No - it's done all the damage it can, so it's satisfied,' said Uncle Quentin, grimly. 'Well, we'll talkthings over in the morning.'
The children found it very difficult to go to sleep after such an excitement, tired though they were.
Anne felt worried. How could they all stay at Kirrin Cottage now? It wouldn't be fair on Aunt Fanny.
But they couldn't go home because her father and mother were both away and the house was shut upfor a month.
'I hope we shan't be sent back to school,' thought Anne, trying to get comfortable on the sofa. 'Itwould be too awful, after having left there, and started off so gaily for the holidays.'
George was afraid of that, too. She felt sure that they would all be packed back to their schools thenext morning. That would mean that she and Anne wouldn't see Julian and Dick any more theseholidays, for the boys, of course, went to a different school.
Timmy was the only one who didn't worry about things. He lay on George's feet, snoring a little,quite happy. So long as he was with George he didn't really mind where he went!
2.




























































Chapter Three UNCLE QUENTIN HAS AN IDEA
Chapter Three UNCLE QUENTIN HAS AN IDEA
NEXT morning the wind was still high, but the fury of the gale was gone. The fishermen on thebeach were relieved to find that their boats had suffered very little damage. But word soon wentround about the accident to Kirrm Cottage, and a few sightseers came up to marvel at the sight of thegreat, uprooted tree, lying heavily on the little house.
The children rather enjoyed the importance of relating how nearly they had escaped with their lives.
In the light of day it was surprising what damage the big tree had done. It had cracked the roof of thehouse like an eggshell, and the rooms upstairs were in a terrible mess.
The woman who came up from the village to help Aunt Fanny during the day exclaimed at the sight:
'Why, Mam, it'll take weeks to set that right!' she said. 'Have you got on to the builders, Mam? I'd getthem up here right away and let them see what's to be done.'
I'm seeing to things, Mrs. Daly,' said Uncle Quentin. 'My wife has had a great shock. She is not fit tosee to things herself. The first thing to do is to decide what is to happen to the children.
They can't remain here while there are no usable bedrooms.'
'They had better go back to school, poor things,' said Aunt Fanny.
'No. I've a better idea than that,' said Uncle Quentin, fishing a letter out of his pocket. 'Much better.
I've had a letter from that fellow Lenoir this morning - you know, the one who's interested in thesame kind of experiments as I am. He says - er, wait a minute, I'll read you the bit. Yes, here it is.'
Uncle Quentin read it out: 'It is most kind of you to suggest my coming to stay with you and bringingmy boy Pierre. Allow me to extend hospitality to you and your children also. I do not know howmany you have, but all are welcome here in this big house. My Pierre will be glad of company, andso will his sister, Marybelle.'
Uncle Quentin looked up triumphantly at his wife. 'There you are! I call that a most generousinvitation! It couldn't have come at a better time. We'll pack the whole of the children off to thisfellow's house.'
'But Quentin - you can't possibly do that! Why, we don't know anything about him or his family!'
said Aunt Fanny.
11
'His boy goes to the same school as Julian and Dick, and I know Lenoir is a remarkable, cleverfellow,' said Uncle Quentin, as if that was all that really mattered. 'I'll telephone him now. What's hisnumber?'
Aunt Fanny felt helpless in face of her husband's sudden determination to settle everything himself.
He was ashamed because it was his forgetfulness that had brought on the accident to the house. Nowhe was going to show that he could see to things if he liked. She heard him telephoning, and frowned.
How could they possibly send off the children to a strange place like that?
Uncle Quentin put down the receiver, and went to find his wife, looking jubilant and very pleasedwith himself.
'It's all settled,' he said. 'Lenoir is delighted, most delighted. Says he loves children about the place,and so does his wife, and his two will be thrilled to have them. If we can hire a car today, they can goat once.'
'But, Quentin - we can't let them go off like that to strange people! They'll hate it! I shouldn't besurprised if George refuses to go,' said his wife.
'Oh - that reminds me. She's not to take Timothy, said Uncle Quentin. 'Apparently Lenoir doesn't likedogs.'
'Well, then, you know George won't go!' said his wife. 'That's foolish, Quentin. George won't goanywhere without Timmy.'
'She'll have to, this time,' said Uncle Quentin, quite determined that George should not upset all hismarvellous plans. 'Here are the children. I'll ask them what they feel about going, and see what theysay!'
He called them into his study. They came in, feeling sure that they were to hear bad news -probably they were all to return to school!
'You remember that boy I spoke to you about last night?' began Uncle Quentin. Pierre Lenoir.
You had some absurd name for him.'
'Sooty,' said Dick and Julian together.
'Ah yes, Sooty. Well, his father has kindly invited you all to go and stay with him at Smuggler's Top,'
said Uncle Quentin.
The children were astonished.
'Smuggler's Top!' said Dick, his fancy caught by the queer name. 'What's Smuggler's Top?'
12
'The name of his house' said Uncle Quentin. 'It's very old, built on the top of a queer hill surroundedby marshes over which the sea once flowed. The hill was once an island, but now it's just a tall hillrising up from the marsh. Smuggling went on there in the old days. It's a very peculiar place, so I'veheard.'
All this made the children feel excited. Also Julian and Dick had always liked Sooty Lenoir. He wasquite mad, but awfully good fun. They might have a first-rate time with him.
'Well - would you like to go? Or would you rather go back to school for the holidays?' asked UncleQuentin impatiently.
'Oh no - not back to school!' said everyone at once.
'I'd love to go to Smuggler's Top,' said Dick. 'It sounds a thrilling place. And I always liked oldSooty, especially since he sawed half through one of the legs of our form-master's chair. It gave wayat once when Mr. Toms sat down!'
'H'm. I don't see that a trick like that is any reason for liking someone,' said Uncle Quentin, beginningto feel a little doubtful about Master Lenoir. 'Perhaps, on the whole, school would be best for you.'
'Oh no, no!' cried everyone. 'Let's go to Smuggler's Top! Do, do let's!'
'Very well,' said "Uncle Quentin, pleased at their eagerness to follow his plan. 'As a matter of fact, Ihave already settled it. I telephoned a few minutes ago. Mr. Lenoir was very kind about it all.'
'Can I take Timmy?' asked George, suddenly.
'No,' said her father. I'm afraid not. Mr. Lenoir doesn't like dogs.'
'Then I shouldn't like him' said George, sulkily. 'I won't go without Timmy.'
'You'll have to go back to school, then,' said her father, sharply. 'And take off that sulky expression,George. You know how I dislike it.'
But George wouldn't. She turned away. The others looked at her in dismay. Surely old George wasn'tgoing to get into one of her moods, and spoil everything! It would be fun to go to Smuggler's Top.
But, of course, it certainly wouldn't be so much fun without Timmy. Still - they couldn't all go backto school just because George wouldn't go anywhere without her dog.
They all went into the sitting-room. Anne put her arm through George's. George shook it off.
'George! You simply must come with us,' said Anne, 'I can't bear to go without you - it would beawful to see you going back to school all alone.'
13
'I shouldn't be all alone,' said George. 'I should have Timmy.'
The others pressed her to change her mind, but she shook them off. 'Leave me alone,' she said. 'I wantto think. How are we supposed to get to Smuggler's Top, and where is it? Which road do we take?'
'We're going by car, and it's right up the coast somewhere, so I expect we'll take the coast-road,'
said Julian. 'Why, George?'
'Don't ask questions,' said George. She went out with Timmy. The others didn't follow her.
George was not very nice when she was cross.
Aunt Fanny began to pack for them, though it was impossible to get some of the things from the girls'
room. After a time George came back, but Timmy was not with her. She looked more cheerful.
'Where's Tim?' asked Anne, at once.
'Out somewhere,' said George.
'Are you coming with us, George?' asked Julian, looking at her.
'Yes. I've made up my mind to,' said George, but for some reason she wouldn't look Julian in theeyes. He wondered why.
Aunt Fanny gave them all an early lunch, and then a big car came for them. They packed themselvesinside. Uncle Quentin gave them all sorts of messages for Mr. Lenoir, and Aunt Fanny kissed themgood-bye. 'I do hope you have a nice time at Smuggler's Top,' she said. 'Mind you write at once andtell me all about it.'
'Aren't we going to say good-bye to Timmy?' said Anne, her eyes opening wide in amazement atGeorge forgetting. 'George, surely you're not going without saying good-bye to old Timmy!'
'Can't stop now,' said Uncle Quentin, afraid that George might suddenly become awkward again.
'Right, driver! You can go off now. Don't drive too fast, please.'
Waving and shouting the children drove away from Kirrin Cottage, sad when they looked back andsaw the smashed roof under the fallen tree. Never mind - they had not been sent back to school. Thatwas the main thing. Their spirits rose as they thought of Sooty and his queerly- named home,Smuggler's Top.
'Smuggler's Top! It sounds too exciting for words!' said Anne. 'I can picture it, an old house right onthe top of a hill. Fancy being an island once. I wonder why the sea went back and left marshesinstead.
14
George said nothing for a while, and the car speeded on. The others glanced at her once or twice, butcame to the conclusion that she was grieving about Timmy. Still she didn't look very sad!
The car went over a hill and speeded down to the bottom. When they got there George leanedforward and touched the driver's arm.
'Would you stop a moment, please? We have to pick somebody up here.'
Julian, Dick and Anne stared at George in surprise. The driver, also rather surprised, drew the car to astandstill. George opened the car door and gave a loud whistle.
Something shot out of the hedge and hurled itself joyfully into the car. It was Timmy! He lickedeveryone, trod on everyone's toes, and gave the little short barks that showed he was excited andhappy.
'Well,' said the driver, doubtfully, 'I don't know if you're supposed to take that dog in, Miss. Yourfather didn't say anything about him.'
'It's all right,' said George, her face red with joy. 'Quite all right. You needn't worry. Start the caragain, please.'
'You are a monkey!' said Julian, half-annoyed with George, and half-pleased because Timmy waswith them after all. 'Mr. Lenoir may send him back, you know.'
'Well, he'll have to send me back too,' said George, defiantly. 'Anyhow, the main thing is, we've gotTimmy after all, and I am coming with you.'
'Yes - that's fine,' said Anne, and gave first George and then Timmy a hug. I didn't like going withoutTim either.'
'On to Smuggler's Top!' said Dick, as the car started off again. 'On to Smuggler's Top. I wonder if weshall have any adventures there!'
3.



































































Chapter Four SMUGGLER'S TOP
Chapter Four SMUGGLER'S TOP
THE car sped on, mostly along the coast, though it sometimes went inland for a few miles. But,sooner or later it was in sight of the sea again. The children enjoyed the long drive. They were to stopsomewhere for lunch, and the driver told them he knew of a good inn.
At half past twelve he drew up outside an old inn, and they all trooped in. Julian took charge, andordered lunch. It was a very good one, and all the children enjoyed it. So did Timmy. The 15innkeeper liked dogs, and put down such a piled-up plate for Timmy that the dog hardly liked tobegin on his meal in case it was not for him!
He looked up at George and she nodded to him. 'It's your dinner, Timmy. Eat it up.'
So he ate it, hoping that if they were going to stay anywhere they might be staying at the inn.
Meals like this did not arrive every day for a hungry dog!
But after lunch the children got up. They went to find the driver, who was having his lunch in thekitchen with the innkeeper and his wife. They were old friends of his.
'Well, I hear you're going to Castaway,' said the innkeeper, getting up. 'You be careful there!'
'Castaway!' said Julian. 'Is that what the hill is called, where Smuggler's Top is?'
'That's its name,' said the innkeeper.
'Why is it called that?' said Anne. 'What a funny name! Were people cast away on it once, when itwas an island?'
'Oh no. The old story goes that the hill was once joined to the mainland,' said the innkeeper. 'But itwas the haunt of bad people, and one of the saints became angry with the place, and cast it away intothe sea, where it became an island.'
'And so it was called Castaway,' said Dick. 'But perhaps it has got good again, because the sea hasgone away from it, and you can walk from the mainland to the hill, can't you?'
'Yes. There's one good road you can take,' said the innkeeper. 'But you be careful of wandering awayfrom it, if you go walking on it! The marsh will suck you down, in no time if you set foot on it!'
'It does sound a most exciting place,' said George. 'Smuggler's Top on Castaway Hill! Only one roadto it!'
'Time to get on,' said the driver, looking at the clock. 'You've got to be there before tea, your unclesaid.'
They got into the car again, Timmy clambering over legs and feet to a comfortable place on George'slap. He was far too big and heavy to lie there but just occasionally he seemed to want to, and Georgenever had the heart to refuse him.
They drove off once more. Anne fell asleep, and the others felt drowsy too. The car purred on and on.
It began to rain, and the countryside looked rather dreary.
The driver turned round after a while and spoke to Julian. 'We're coming near to Castaway Hill, Sir.
We'll soon be leaving the mainland, and taking the road across the marsh.'
16
Julian woke Anne. They all sat up expectantly. But it was very disappointing after all! The marsheswere full of mist! The children could not pierce through it with their eyes, and could only see the flatroad they were on, raised a little higher than the surrounding flat marsh.
When the mist shifted a little now and again the children saw a dreary space of flat marsh on eitherside.
'Stop a minute, driver,' said Julian. I'd like to see what the marsh is like.
'Well, don't step off the road,' warned the driver, stopping the car. 'And don't you let that dog out,Miss. Once he runs off the road and gets into the marsh, he'll be gone for good.'
'What do you mean - gone for good?' said Anne, her eyes wide.
'He means the marsh will suck down Timmy at once,' said Julian. 'Shut him in the car, George.'
So Timmy, much to his disgust, was shut safely in the car. He pawed at the door, and tried to look outof the window. The driver turned and spoke to him. 'It's all right. They'll be back soon, old fellow!'
But Timmy whined all the time the others were out of the car. He saw them go to the edge of theroad. He saw Julian jump down the couple of feet that raised the road above the marsh.
There was a line of raised stones running in the marsh alongside the road. Julian stood on one ofthese peering at the flat marsh.
'It's mud,' he said. 'Loose, squelchy mud! Look, when I touch it with my foot it moves! It would soonsuck me down if I trod heavily on it.'
Anne didn't like it. She called to Julian. 'Come up on the road again. I'm afraid you'll fall in.'
Mists were wreathing and swirling over the salty marshes. It was a weird place, cold and damp.
None of the children liked it. Timmy began to bark in the car.
'Tim will scratch the car to bits if we don't get back,' said George. So they all went back, rather silent.
Julian wondered how many travellers had been lost in that strange sea-marsh.
'Oh, there's many that's never been heard of again,' said the driver, when they asked him. 'They dosay there's one or two winding paths that go to the hill from the mainland, that were used before theroad was built. But unless you know every inch of them you're off them in a trice, and find your feetsinking in the mud.'
'It's horrid to think about,' said Anne. 'Don't let's talk about it any more. Can we see Castaway Hillyet?'
17
'Yes. There it is, looming up in the mist,' said the driver. 'The top of it is out of the mist, see?
Queer place, isn't it?'
The children looked in silence. Out of the slowly moving mists rose, a tall, steep hill, whose rockysides were as steep as cliffs. The hill seemed to swim in the mists, and to have no roots in the earth. Itwas covered with buildings which even at that distance looked old and quaint. Some of them hadtowers.
'That must be Smuggler's Top, right at the summit,' said Julian, pointing. 'It's like an old building ofcenturies ago - probably is! Look at the tower it has. What a wonderful view you'd get from it.'
The children gazed at the place where they were to stay. It looked exciting and picturesque, certainly- but it also looked rather forbidding.
'It's sort of - sort of secret, somehow,' said Anne, putting into words what the others were thinking. 'Imean it looks as if it had kept all kinds of queer secrets down the centuries. I guess it could tell plentyof tales!'
The car drove on again, quite slowly, because the mists came down thickly. The road had a line ofsparkling round buttons set all along the middle, and when the driver switched on his fog-lamp, theyshone brightly and guided him well. Then as they neared Castaway Hill the road began to slopeupwards.
'We go through a big archway soon,' said the driver. 'That used to be where the city gate once was.
The whole town is surrounded by wall still, just as it used to be in olden times. It's wide enough towalk on, and if you start at a certain place, and walk long enough, you'll come round to the place youstarted at!'
All the children made up their minds to do this without fail. What a view they would have all roundthe hill, if they chose a fine day!
The road became steeper, and the driver put the engine into a lower gear. It groaned up the hill.
Then it came to an archway, from which old gates were fastened back. It passed through, and thechildren were in Castaway.
'It's almost as if we've gone back through the centuries, and come to somewhere that existed agesago!' said Julian, peering at the old houses and shops, with their cobbled streets, their diamond-panedwindows, and stout old doors.
18
They went up the winding high street, and came at last to a big gateway, set with wrought-iron gates.
The driver hooted and they opened. They swept into a steep drive, and at last stopped beforeSmuggler's Top.
They got out, feeling suddenly shy. The big old house seemed to frown down at them. It was built ofbrick and timber, and its front door was as massive as that of a castle.
Queer gables jutted here and there over the diamond-paned windows. The house's one tower stoodsturdily at the east side of the house, with windows all round. It was not a square tower, but arounded one, and ended in a point.
'Smuggler's Top!' said Julian. 'It's a good name for it somehow. I suppose lots of smuggling went onhere in the old days.'
Dick rang the bell. To do this he had to pull down an iron handle, and a jangling at once made itselfheard in the house.
There was the sound of running feet, and the door was opened. It opened slowly, for it was heavy.
Beyond it stood two children, one a girl of about Anne's age, and the other a boy of Dick's age.
'Here you are at last!' cried the boy, his dark eyes dancing. 'I thought you were never coming!'
'This is Sooty,' said Dick to the girls, who had not met him before. They stared at him.
He was certainly very very dark. Black hair, black eyes, black eyebrows, and a brown face. Incontrast to him the girl beside him looked pale and delicate. She had golden hair, blue eyes and hereyebrows were so faint they could hardly be seen.
'This is Marybelle, my sister,' said Sooty. 'I always think we look like Beauty and the Beast!'
Sooty was nice. Everyone liked him at once. George found herself twinkling at him in a way quitestrange to her, for usually she was shy of strangers, and would not make friends for some time. Butwho could help liking Sooty with his dancing black eyes and his really wicked grin?
'Come in,' said Sooty. 'Driver, you can take the car round to the next door, and Block will take in theluggage for you and give you tea.'
Suddenly Sooty's face lost its smile and grew very solemn. He had seen Timmy!
'I say! I say - that's not your dog, is it?' he said.
'He's mine,' said George, and she laid a protecting-hand on Timmy's head. 'I had to bring him. I can'tgo anywhere without him.'
19
'Yes, but - no dog's allowed at Smuggler's Top,' said Sooty, still looking very worried, and glancingbehind him as if he was afraid someone might come along and see Timmy. 'My stepfather won'tallow any dogs here. Once I brought in a stray one and he licked me till I couldn't sit down - mystepfather licked me, I mean, not the dog.'
Anne gave a frightened little smile at the poor joke. George looked stubborn and sulky.
'I thought -1 thought maybe we could hide him somewhere while we were here,' she said. 'But ifthat's how you feel, I'll go back home with the car. Good-bye.'
She turned and went after the car, which was backing away. Timmy went with her. Sooty stared, andthen he yelled after her. 'Come back, stupid! We'll think of something!'
4.



12






























































Chapter Five SOOTY LENOIR
Chapter Five SOOTY LENOIR
SOOTY ran down the steps that led to the front door, and tore after George. The others followed.
Marybelle went too, shutting the big front door behind her carefully.
There was a small door in the wall just where George was. Sooty caught hold of her and pushed herroughly through the door, holding it open for the others.
'Don't shove me like that,' began George, angrily. 'Timmy will bite you if you push me about.'
'No, he won't,' said Sooty, with a cheerful grin. 'Dogs like me. Even if I boxed your ears your dogwould only wag his tail at me.'
The children found themselves in a dark passage. There was a door at the farther end. 'Wait here aminute and I'll see if the coast is clear,' said Sooty. 'I know my stepfather is in, and I tell you, if hesees that dog he'll pack you all into the car again, and send you back! And I don't want him to do thatbecause I can't tell you how I've looked forward to having you all!'
He grinned at them, and their hearts warmed towards him again, even George's, though she still feltangry at being so roughly pushed. She kept Timmy close beside her.
All the same everyone felt a bit scared of Mr. Lenoir. He sounded rather a fierce sort of person!
Sooty tiptoed to the door at the end of the passage and opened it. He peeped into the room there, andthen came back to the others.
'All clear,' he said. 'We'll take the secret passage to my bedroom. No one will see us then, and oncewe're there we can make plans to hide the dog. Ready?'
20
A secret passage sounded thrilling. Feeling rather as if they were in an adventure story, the childrenwent quietly to the door and into the room beyond. It was a dark, oak-panelled room, evidently astudy of some sort, for there was a big desk there, and the walls were lined with books. There was noone there.
Sooty went to one of the oak panels in the wall, felt along it deftly, and pressed in a certain place.
The panel slid softly aside. Sooty put in his hand and pulled at something. A much larger panel belowslid into the wall, and left an opening big enough for the children to pass through.
'Come on,' said Sooty in a low voice. 'Don't make a row.'
Feeling excited, the children all passed through the opening. Sooty came last, and did something thatshut the opening and slid the first panel back into its place again.
He switched on a small torch, for it was pitch dark where the children were standing.
They were in a narrow stone passage, so narrow that two people could not possibly have passed oneanother unless both were as thin as rakes. Sooty passed his torch along to Julian, who was in front.
'Keep straight on till you come to stone steps,' he said. 'Go up them, turn to the right at the top, andkeep straight on till you come to a blank wall, then I'll tell you what to do.'
Julian led the way, holding up the torch for the others. The narrow passage ran straight, and came tosome stone steps. It was not only very narrow but rather low, so that Anne and Marybelle were theonly ones who did not have to bend their heads.
Anne didn't like it very much. She never liked being in a very narrow enclosed space. It reminded herof dreams she sometimes had of being somewhere she couldn't get away from. She was glad whenJulian spoke. 'The steps are here. Up we go, everyone.'
'Don't make a row,' said Sooty, in a low voice. 'We're passing the dining-room now. There's a wayinto this passage from there too.'
Everyone fell silent, and tried to walk on tiptoe, though this was unexpectedly difficult when headshad to be bent and shoulders stooped.
They climbed up fourteen steps, which were quite steep, and curved round half-way. Julian turned tothe right at the top. The passage ran upwards then, and was as narrow as before. Julian felt certainthat a very fat person could not possibly get along it.
He went on until, with a start, he almost bumped into a blank stone wall! He flashed his torch up anddown it. A low voice came from the back of the line of children.
21
'You've got to the blank wall, Julian. Shine your torch up to where the roof of the passage meets thewall. You will see an iron handle there. Press down on it hard.'
Julian flashed his torch up and saw the handle. He put his torch into his left hand, and grasped thethick iron handle with his right hand. He pressed down as hard as he could.
And, quite silently, the great stone in the middle of the wall slid forward and sideways, leaving agaping hole.
Julian was astonished. He let go the iron handle and flashed his torch into the hole. There was nothingbut darkness there!
'It's all right it leads into a big cupboard in my bedroom!' called Sooty from the back. 'Get through,Julian, and we'll follow. There won't be anyone in my room.'
Julian crawled through the hole and found himself in a spacious cupboard, hung with Booty's clothes.
He groped his way through them and bumped against a door. He opened it and at once daylightflooded into the cupboard, lighting up the way from the passage into the room.
One by one the others clambered through the hole, lost themselves in clothes for a moment and thenwent thankfully into the room through the cupboard door.
Timmy, puzzled and silent, followed close beside George. He had not liked the dark, narrow passagevery much. He was glad to be in daylight again!
Sooty, coming last, carefully closed the opening into the passage by pressing the stone back. Itworked easily, though Julian could not imagine how. There must be some sort of pivot, he thought.
Sooty joined the others in his bedroom, grinning. George had her hand on Timmy's collar. 'It's allright, George,' said Sooty. 'We're quite safe here. My room and Marybelle's are separate from the restof the house. We're in a wing on our own, reached by a long passage!'
He opened the door and showed the others what he meant. There was a room next to his, which wasMarybelle's. Beyond stretched a stone-floored, stone-walled passage, laid with mats. At the end of it abig window let in light. There was a door there, a great oak one, which was shut.
'See? We're quite safe here, all by ourselves,' said Sooty. 'Timmy could bark if he liked, and no onewould know.'
'But doesn't anyone ever come?' said Anne, surprised. 'Who keeps your rooms tidy, and cleans them?'
22
'Oh, Sarah comes and does that every morning,' said Sooty. 'But usually no one else comes. Andanyway, I've got a way of knowing when anyone opens that door!'
He pointed to the door at the end of the passage. The others stared at him.
'How do you know?" said Dick.
'I've rigged up something that makes a buzzing noise here, in my room, as soon as that door isopened,' said Sooty, proudly. 'Look, I'll go along and open it, while you stay here and listen.'
He sped along the passage and opened the heavy door at the end. Immediately a low buzzing noisesounded somewhere in his room, and made everyone jump. Timmy was startled too, pricked up hisears, and growled fiercely.
Sooty shut the door and ran back. 'Did you hear the noise? It's a good idea, isn't it? I'm alwaysthinking of things like that.'
The others thought they had come to rather a queer place! They stared round Sooty's bedroom, whichwas quite ordinary in its furnishings, and in its general untidiness. There was a big diamond-panedwindow, and Anne went to look out of it.
She gave a gasp. She had not expected to look down such a precipice! Smuggler's Top was built atthe summit of the hill, and on the side where Sooty's bedroom was, the hill fell away steeply, downand down to the marsh below!
'Oh look!' she said. 'Look how steep it is! It really gives me a very queer feeling to look down there!'
The others crowded round and looked in silence, for it certainly was strange to gaze down such along way. The sun was shining up on the hill-summit, but all around, as far as they could see, mistshid the marsh and the far-off sea. The only bit of the marsh that could be seen was far down below, atthe bottom of the steep hill.
'When the mists are away, you can see over the flat marshes to where the sea begins,' said Sooty.
'That's quite a fine sight. You can hardly tell where the marsh ends and sea begins except when thesea is very blue. Fancy, once upon a time, the sea came right up and around this hill, and it was anisland.'
'Yes. The innkeeper told us that,' said George. 'Why did the sea go back and leave it?'
'I don't know,' said Sooty. 'People say it's going back farther and farther. There's a big scheme on footto drain the marsh, and turn it into fields, but I don't know if that will ever happen.'
'I don't like that marsh,' said Anne, with a shiver. 'It looks wicked, somehow.'
23
Timmy whined. George remembered that they must hide him, and make plans for him. She turned toSooty.
'Did you mean what you said about hiding Tim?' she asked. 'Where shall we put him? And can he befed? And how can we exercise him? He's a big dog, you know.'
'We'll plan it all,' said Sooty. 'Don't you worry. I love dogs, and I shall be thrilled to have Timmyhere. But I do warn you that if my stepfather ever finds out, we shall probably all get a jolly goodthrashing and you'll be sent home in disgrace.'
'But why doesn't your father like dogs?' said Anne puzzled. 'Is he afraid of them?'
'No, I don't think so. It's just that he won't have them here in the house,' said Sooty. 'I think he musthave a reason for it, but I don't know what it is. He's a queer sort of man, my stepfather!'
'How is he queer?' asked Dick.
'Well - he seems full of secrets,' said Sooty. 'Queer people come here, and they come secretly withoutanyone knowing. I've seen lights shining in our tower on certain nights, but I don't know who putsthem there or why. I've tried to find out, but I can't.'
'Do you think - do you think your father is a smuggler?' said Anne, suddenly.
'I don't think so,' said Sooty. 'We've got one smuggler here, and everyone knows him! See that houseover there to the right, lower down the hill? Well, that's where he lives. He's as rich as can be. Hisname is Barling. Even the police know his goings-on, but they can't stop him! He is very rich andvery powerful, so he does what he likes - and he won't let anyone play the same game as he plays! Noone else would dare to do any smuggling in Castaway, while he does it!'
'This seems rather an exciting place,' said Julian. 'I have a kind of feeling there might be an adventuresomewhere about!'
'Oh no,' said Sooty. 'Nothing ever happens, really. It's only just a feeling you get here, because theplace is so old, so full of secret ways and pits and passages. Why, the whole hill is mined withpassages in the rock, used by the smugglers of olden times!'
'Well,' began Julian, and stopped very suddenly. Everyone stared at Sooty. His secret buzzer hadsuddenly barked from its hidden corner! Someone had opened the door at the end of the passage!
5.






















14













































Chapter One THE BEGINNING OF THE HOLIDAYS
Chapter One THE BEGINNING OF THE HOLIDAYS
'I do love the beginning of the summer hols,' said Julian. They always seem to stretch out aheadfor ages and ages.'
'They go so nice and slowly at first,' said Anne, his little sister. 'Then they start to gallop.'
The others laughed. They knew exactly what Anne meant. 'Woof,' said a deep voice, as ifsomeone else thoroughly agreed too.
'Timmy thinks you're right, Anne,' said George, and patted the big dog lying panting besidethem. Dick patted him, too, and Timmy licked them both.
The four children were lying in a sunny garden in the first week of the holidays. Usually theywent to their cousin Georgina's home for holidays, at Kirrin - but this time, for a change, theywere all at the home of Julian, Dick and Anne.
Julian was the oldest, a tall, sturdy boy with a strong and pleasant face. Dick and Georgina camenext. Georgina looked more like a curly-headed boy than a girl, and she insisted on being calledGeorge. Even the teachers at school called her George. Anne was the youngest, though, much toher delight, she was really growing taller now.
'Daddy said this morning that if we didn't want to stay here all the hols we could choose what wewanted to do,' said Anne. 'I vote for staying here.'
'We could go off somewhere just for two weeks, perhaps,' said Dick. 'For a change.'
'Shall we go to Kirrin, and stay with George's mother and father for a bit?' said Julian, thinkingthat perhaps George would like this.
'No,' said George at once. 'I went home at half-term, and Mother said Father was just beginningone of his experiments in something or other - and you know what that means. If we go therewe'd have to walk about on tiptoe, and talk in whispers, and keep out of his way the whole time.'
'That's the worst of having a scientist for a father,' said Dick, lying down on his back and shuttinghis eyes. 'Well, your mother couldn't cope with us and with your father, too, in the middle of oneof his experiments at the same time. Sparks would fly.'
'I like Uncle Quentin, but I'm afraid of him when he's in one of his tempers,' said Anne. 'Heshouts so.'
3
'It's decided that we won't go to Kirrin, then,' said Julian, yawning. 'Not these hols, anyhow. Youcan always go and see Mother for a week or so, George, when you want to. What shall we do,then? Stay here all the time?'
They were now all lying down on their backs in the sun, their eyes shut. What a hot afternoon!
Timmy sat up by George, his pink tongue hanging out, panting loudly.
'Don't, Timmy,' said Anne. 'You sound as if you have been running for miles, and you make mefeel hotter than ever.'
Timmy put a friendly paw on Anne's middle and she squealed. 'Oh, Timmy - your paw's heavy.
Take it off.'
'You know, I think if we were allowed to go off by ourselves somewhere, it would be rather fun,'
said George, biting a blade of grass and squinting up into the deep blue sky. The biggest funwe've ever had was when we were alone on Kirrin Island, for instance. Couldn't we go offsomewhere all by ourselves?'
'But where?' said Dick. 'And how? I mean we aren't old enough to take a car - though I bet Icould drive one. It wouldn't be much fun going on bicycles, because Anne can't ride as fast as wecan.'
'And somebody always gets a puncture,' said Julian.
'It would be jolly good fun to go off on horses,' said George. 'Only we haven't got even one.'
'Yes, we have - there's old Dobby down in the field,' said Dick. 'He is ours. He used to draw thepony-cart, but we don't use it any more now he's turned out to grass.'
'Well, one horse wouldn't take four of us, silly,' said George. 'Dobby's no good.'
There was a silence, and everyone thought lazily about holidays. Timmy snapped at a fly, and histeeth came together with a loud click.
'Wish I could catch flies like that,' said Dick, flapping away a blue-bottle. 'Come and catch thisone, Timmy, old thing.'
'What about a walking tour?' said Julian after a pause. There was a chorus of groans.
'What! In this weather! You're mad!'
'We shouldn't be allowed to.'
'All right, all right,' said Julian. 'Think of a better idea, then.'
'I'd like to go somewhere where we could bathe,' said Anne. 'In a lake, for instance, if we can't goto the sea.'
4
'Sounds nice,' said Dick. 'My goodness, I'm sleepy. Let's hurry up and settle this matter, or I shallbe snoring hard.'
But it wasn't easy to settle. Nobody wanted to go off to an hotel, or to rooms. Grown-ups wouldwant to go with them and look after them. And nobody wanted to go walking or cycling in thehot August weather.
'Looks as if we'll have to stay at home all the hols, then,' said Julian. 'Well - I'm going to have asnooze.'
In two minutes they were all asleep on the grass except Timmy. If his family fell asleep like this,Timmy considered himself on guard. The big dog gave his mistress George a soft lick and sat upfirmly beside her, his ears cocked, and his eyes bright. He panted hard, but nobody heard him.
They were all snoozing deliciously in the sun, getting browner and browner.
The garden sloped up a hillside. From where he sat Timmy could see quite a long way, both upand down the road that ran by the house. It was a wide road, but not a very busy one, for it was acountry district.
Timmy heard a dog barking in the distance, and his ears twitched in that direction. He heardpeople walking down the road and his ears twitched again. He missed nothing, not even the robinthat flew down to get a caterpillar on a bush not far off. He growled softly in his throat at therobin - just to tell it that he was on guard, so beware.
Then something came down the wide road, something that made Timmy shake with excitement,and sniff at the strange smells that came floating up to the garden. A big procession camewinding up the road, with a rumble and clatter of wheels - a slow procession, headed by a verystrange thing.
Timmy had no idea what it was that headed the procession. Actually it was a big elephant, andTimmy smelt its smell, strange and strong, and didn't like it. He smelt the scent of the monkeysin their travelling cage, too, and he heard the barking of the performing dogs in their van.
He answered them defiantly. 'WOOF, WOOF, WOOF.'
The loud barking awoke all four children at once. 'Shut up, Timmy,' said George crossly. 'What arow to make when we're all having a nap.'
'WOOF,' said Timmy obstinately, and pawed at his mistress to make her sit up and take notice.
George sat up. She saw the procession at once and gave a yell.
'Hey, you others. There's a circus procession going by. Look.'
5
They all sat up, wide awake now. They stared down at the caravans going slowly along, andlistened to an animal howling, and the dogs barking.
'Look at that elephant, pulling the caravan along,' said Anne. 'He must be jolly strong.'
'Let's go down to the gate of the drive and watch,' said Dick. So they all got up and ran down thegarden, then round the house and into the drive that led to the road. The procession was justpassing the gates.
It was a gay sight. The caravans were painted in brilliant colours, and looked spick and spanfrom the outside. Little flowery curtains hung at the windows. At the front of each caravan satthe man or woman who owned it, driving the horse that pulled it. Only the front caravan waspulled by an elephant.
'Golly - doesn't it look exciting?' said George. 'I wish I belonged to a circus that went wanderingall over the place all the year. That's just the sort of life I'd like.'
'Fat lot of good you'd be in the circus,' said Dick rudely. 'You can't even turn a cart-wheel.'
'What's a cart-wheel?' said Anne.
'What that boy's doing over there,' said Dick. 'Look.'
He pointed to a boy who was turning cart-wheels very quickly, going over and over on his handsand feet, turning himself like a wheel. It looked so easy, but it wasn't, as Dick very well knew.
'Oh, is he turning a cart-wheel?' said Anne admiringly. 'I wish I could do that.'
The boy came up to them and grinned. He had two terrier dogs with him. Timmy growled andGeorge put her hand on his collar.
'Don't come too near,' she called. 'Timmy isn't quite sure about you.'
'We won't hurt him!' said the boy, and grinned again. He had an ugly, freckled face, with a shockof untidy hair. 'I won't let my dogs eat your Timmy.'
'As if they could!' began George scornfully, and then laughed. The terriers kept close to the boy'sheels. He clicked and both dogs rose at once on their hind legs and walked sedately behind himwith funny little steps.
'Oh - are they performing dogs?' said Anne. 'Are they yours?'
These two are,' said the boy. This is Barker and this is Growler. I've had them from pups - cleveras paint they are!'
'Woof,' said Timmy, apparently disgusted at seeing dogs walk in such a peculiar way. It hadnever occurred to him that a dog could get up on his hind legs.
6
'Where are you giving your next show?' asked George eagerly. 'We'd like to see it.'
'We're off for a rest,' said the boy. 'Up in the hills, where there's a blue lake at the bottom. We'reallowed to camp there with our animals - it's wild and lonely and we don't disturb nobody. Wejust camp there with our caravans.'
'It sounds fine,' said Dick. 'Which is your caravan?'
'This one, just coming,' said the boy, and he pointed to a brightly painted van, whose sides wereblue and yellow, and whose wheels were red. 'I live in it with my Uncle Dan. He's the chiefclown of the circus. There he is, sitting on the front, driving the horse.'
The children stared at the chief clown, and thought that they had never seen anyone less like aclown. He was dressed in dirty grey flannel trousers and a dirty red shirt open at an equally dirtyneck.
He didn't look as if he could make a single joke, or do anything in the least funny. In fact, helooked really bad-tempered, the children thought, and he scowled so fiercely as he chewed on anold pipe that Anne felt quite scared. He didn't look at the children at all, but called in a sharpvoice to the boy:
'Nobby! You come on along of us. Get in the caravan and make me a cup of tea.'
The boy Nobby winked at the children and ran to the caravan. It was plain that Uncle Dan kepthim in order all right! He poked his head out of the little window in the side of the caravannearest to the children.
'Sorry I can't ask you to tea too!' he called. 'And the dog. Barker and Growler wouldn't half liketo know him!'
The caravan passed on, taking the scowling clown with it, and the grinning Nobby. The childrenwatched the others going by, too; it was quite a big circus. There was a cage of monkeys, achimpanzee sitting in a corner of a dark cage, asleep, a string of beautiful horses, sleek andshining, a great wagon carrying benches and forms and tents, caravans for the circus folk to livein, and a host of interesting people to see, sitting on the steps of their vans or walking togetheroutside to stretch their legs.
At last the procession was gone and the children went slowly back to their sunny corner in thegarden. They sat down - and then George announced something that made them sit up straight.
'I know what we'll do these hols! We'll hire a caravan and go off in it by ourselves. Do let's! Oh,do let's!'
1.










































































Chapter Two GEORGE'S GREAT IDEA
Chapter Two GEORGE'S GREAT IDEA
The others stared at George's excited face. She had gone quite red. Dick thumped on the ground.
'A jolly good idea! Why didn't we think of it before?'
'Oh, yes! A caravan to ourselves! It sounds too good to be true!' said Anne, and her eyes shone.
'Well, I must say it would be something we've never done before,' said Julian, wondering if itwas really possible. 'I say - wouldn't it be gorgeous if we could go off into the hills - where thatlake is that the boy spoke about? We could bathe there - and we could perhaps get to know thecircus folk. I've always wanted to know about circuses.'
'Oh, Julian! That's a better idea still!' said George, rubbing her hands together in delight. 'I likedthat boy Nobby, didn't you?'
'Yes,' said everyone.
'But I didn't like his uncle,' said Dick. 'He looked a nasty bit of work. I bet he makes Nobby toethe mark and do what he's told.'
'Julian, do you think we'd be allowed to go caravanning by ourselves?' asked Anne earnestly. 'Itdoes seem to me to be the most marvellous idea we've ever had.'
'Well - we can ask and see,' said Julian. 'I'm old enough to look after you all.'
'Pooh!' said George. 'I don't want any looking after, thank you. And anyway, if we want lookingafter, Timmy can do that. I bet the grown-ups will be glad to be rid of us for a week or two. Theyalways think the summer hols are too long.'
'We'll take Dobby with us to pull the caravan!' said Anne suddenly, looking down at the fieldwhere Dobby stood, patiently flicking away the flies with his long tail. 'Dobby would love that! Ialways think he must be lonely, living in that field all by himself, just being borrowed by peopleoccasionally.'
'Of course - Dobby could come,' said Dick. 'That would be fine. Where could we get the caravanfrom? Are they easy to hire?'
'Don't know,' said Julian. 'I knew a chap at school - you remember him, Dick, that big fellowcalled Perry - he used to go caravanning every hols with his people. They used to hire caravans, Iknow. I might find out from him where he got them from.'
8
'Daddy will know,' said Anne. 'Or Mummy. Grown-ups always know things like that. I'd like anice large caravan - red and blue - with a little chimney, and windows each side, and a door atthe back, and steps to go up into the caravan, and . . .'
The others interrupted with their own ideas, and soon they were all talking excitedly about it - soloudly that they didn't see someone walking up and standing near by, laughing at the excitement.
'Woof,' said Timmy politely. He was the only one who had ears and eyes for anything else at themoment. The children looked up.
'Oh, hallo, Mother!' said Julian. 'You've just come at the right moment. We want to tell you aboutan idea we've got.'
His mother sat down, smiling. 'You seem very excited about something,' she said. 'What is it?'
'Well, it's like this, Mummy,' said Anne, before anyone else could get a word in, 'we've made upour minds that we'd like to go off in a caravan for a holiday by ourselves! Oh, Mummy - it wouldbe such fun!'
'By yourselves?' said her mother doubtfully. 'Well, I don't know about that.'
'Julian can look after us,' said Anne.
'So can Timmy,' put in George at once, and Timmy thumped the ground with his tail. Of coursehe could look after them! Hadn't he done it for years, and shared all their adventures? Thump,thump, thump!
'I'll have to talk it over with Daddy,' said Mother. 'Now don't look so disappointed - I can't decidea thing like this all by myself in a hurry. But it may fit in quite well because I know Daddy has togo up north for a little while, and he would like me to go with him. So he might think a littlecaravanning quite a good idea. I'll talk to him tonight.'
'We could have Dobby to pull the caravan, Mummy,' said Anne, her eyes bright. 'Couldn't we?
He'd love to come. He has such a dull life now.'
'We'll see, we'll see,' said her mother, getting up. 'Now you'd better all come in and wash. It'snearly tea-time. Your hair is terrible, Anne. What have you been doing?'
Everyone rushed indoors to wash, feeling distinctly cheerful. Mother hadn't said NO. She hadeven thought it might fit in quite well. Golly, to go off in a caravan all alone - doing their owncooking and washing - having Dobby for company, and Timmy as well, of course. How simplygorgeous.
9
The children's father did not come home until late that evening, which was a nuisance, fornobody felt that they could wait for very long to know whether they might or might not go.
Everyone but Julian was in bed when he came home, and even when he, too, came to bed he hadnothing to report.
He stuck his head into the girls' bedroom. 'Daddy's tired and he's having a late supper, andMother won't bother him till he's feeling better. So we shan't know till morning, worse luck!'
The girls groaned. How could they possibly go to sleep with thoughts of caravans floatingdeliciously in their heads - not knowing whether or not they would be allowed to go!
'Blow!' said George. 'I shan't go to sleep for ages. Get off my feet, Timmy. Honestly, it's too hotto have you anywhere near me this weather.'
In the morning good news awaited the four children. They sat down at the breakfast-table, allvery punctual for once, and Julian looked expectantly at his mother. She smiled at him andnodded.
'Yes, we've talked it over,' she said. 'And Daddy says he doesn't see why you shouldn't have acaravan holiday. He thinks it would be good for you to go off and rough it a bit. But you willhave to have two caravans, not one. We couldn't have all four of you, and Timmy too, living inone caravan.'
'Oh - but Dobby couldn't pull two caravans, Mummy,' said Anne.
'We can borrow another horse,' said Julian. 'Can't we, Mother? Thanks awfully, Daddy, forsaying we can go. It's jolly sporting of you.'
'Absolutely super,' said Dick.
'Wizard!' said George, her fingers scratching Timmy's head excitedly. 'When can we go?
Tomorrow?'
'Of course not!' said Julian. 'We've got to get the caravans - and borrow a horse - and pack - andall sorts of things.'
'You can go next week, when I take your mother up north with me,' said his father. 'That will suitus very well. We can give Cook a holiday, too, then. You will have to send us a card every singleday to tell us how you are and where you are.'
'It does sound thrilling,' said Anne. 'I really don't feel as if I can eat any breakfast, Mummy.'
'Well, if that's the effect the idea of caravanning has on you, I don't think you'd better go,' saidher mother. Anne hastily began to eat her shredded wheat, and her appetite soon came back. It10
was too good to be true - to have two caravans - and two horses - and sleep in bunks perhaps -and cook meals outside in the open air - and . . .
'You will be in complete charge, you understand, Julian,' said the boy's father. 'You are oldenough now to be really responsible. The others must realise that you are in charge and theymust do as you say.'
'Yes, sir,' said Julian, feeling proud. 'I'll see to things all right.'
'And Timmy will be in charge, too,' said George. 'He's just as responsible as Julian.'
'Woof,' said Timmy, hearing his name, and thumping the floor with his tail.
'You're a darling, Timmy,' said Anne. 'I'll always do what you say, as well as what Julian says!'
'Idiot!' said Dick. He patted Timmy's head. 'I bet we wouldn't be allowed to go without you,Timothy. You are a jolly good guard for anyone.'
'You certainly wouldn't be allowed to go without Timmy,' said his mother. 'We know you'll besafe with him.'
It was all most exciting. The children went off to talk things over by themselves when breakfastwas finished.
'I vote we go caravanning up into the hills that boy spoke of, where the lake lies at the bottom -and camp there,' said Julian. 'We'd have company then - jolly exciting company, too. Wewouldn't live too near the circus camp - they might not like strangers butting in - but we'll livenear enough to see the elephant going for his daily walk, and the dogs being exercised . . .'
'And we'll make friends with Nobby, won't we?' said Anne eagerly. 'I liked him. We won't gonear his uncle, though. I think it's queer that such a bad-tempered looking man should be thechief clown in a circus.'
'I wonder when and where Mother will get the caravans!' said Julian. 'Gosh, won't it be fun whenwe see them for the first time!'
'Let's go and tell Dobby!' said Anne. 'He is sure to be excited, too!'
'Baby! He won't understand a word you tell him!' said George. But off she went with Anne justthe same, and soon Dobby was hearing all about the wonderful holiday plan. Hrrrrumph! So longas it included him, too, he was happy!
2.



























































Chapter Three THE CARAVANS ARRIVE
Chapter Three THE CARAVANS ARRIVE
At last the great day came when the two caravans were due to arrive. The children stood at theend of the drive for hours, watching for them.
Mother had managed to borrow them from an old friend of hers. The children had promisedfaithfully to look after them well, and not to damage anything. Now they stood at the end of thedrive, watching eagerly for the caravans to arrive.
'They are being drawn by cars today,' said Julian. 'But they are fitted up to be horse-drawn, too. Iwonder what they are like - and what colour they are?'
'Will they be like gypsy caravans, on high wheels, do you think?' asked Anne. Julian shook hishead.
'No, they're modern, Mother says. Streamlined and all that. Not too big either, because a horsecan't draw too heavy a van.'
'They're coming, they're coming! I can see them!' suddenly yelled George, making them alljump. 'Look, isn't that them, far down the road?'
They all looked hard into the distance. No one had such good eyes as George, and all they couldsee was a blotch, a moving speck far away on the road. But George's eyes saw two caravans, onebehind the other.
'George is right,' said Julian, straining his eyes. 'It's our caravans. They're each drawn by a smallcar.'
'One's red and the other's green,' said Anne. 'Bags I the red one. Oh, hurry up, caravans!'
At last they were near enough to see properly. The children ran to meet them. They certainlywere very nice ones, quite modern and 'streamlined', as Julian had said, well built andcomfortable.
They almost reach the ground!' said Anne. 'And look at the wheels, set so neatly into the side ofthe vans. I do like the red one, bags I the red one.'
Each van had a little chimney, long, narrow windows down the two sides, and tiny ones in frontby the driver's seat. There was a broad door at the back and two steps down. Pretty curtainsfluttered at the open windows.
12
'Red curtains for the green caravan, and green ones for the red caravan!' said Anne. 'Oh, I want togo inside!'
But she couldn't because the doors were locked. So she had to be content to run with the othersup the drive after the two caravans, shouting loudly:
'Mummy! They're here, the caravans are here.'
Her mother came running down the steps to see. Soon the doors were unlocked and the childrenwent inside the caravans. Delighted shouts came from both vans.
'Bunks along one side - is that where we sleep? How gorgeous!'
'Look at this little sink - we can really wash up. And golly, water comes out of these taps!'
'There's a proper stove to cook on - but I vote we cook out of doors on a camp-fire. I say, look atthe bright frying-pans - and all the cups and saucers hanging up!'
'It's like a proper little house inside. Doesn't it seem nice and big? Mother, isn't it beautifullyplanned? Don't you wish you were coming with us?'
'Hey, you girls! Do you see where the water comes from? Out of that tank on the roof. It mustcollect rain-water. And look at this gadget for heating water. Isn't it all super?'
The children spent hours examining their caravans and finding out all the secrets. They certainlywere very well fitted, spotlessly clean, and very roomy. George felt as if she couldn't wait to startout. She really must get Dobby and set out at once!
'No, you must wait, silly,' said Julian. 'You know we've to get the other horse. He's not comingtill tomorrow.'
The other horse was a sturdy little black fellow called Trotter. He belonged to the milkman, whooften lent him out. He was a sensible little horse, and the children knew him very well and likedhim. They all learnt riding at school, and knew how to groom and look after a horse, so therewould be no difficulty over their managing Dobby and Trotter.
Mother was thrilled over the caravans, too, and looked very longingly at them. 'If I wasn't goingwith Daddy I should be most tempted to come with you,' she said. 'Don't look so startled, Annedear - I'm not really coming!'
'We're jolly lucky to get such decent caravans,' said Julian. 'We'd better pack our things today,hadn't we, Mother - and start off tomorrow, now we've got the caravans.'
13
'You won't need to pack,' said his mother. 'All you have to do is to pop your things straight intothe cupboards and drawers - you will only want clothes and books and a few games to play incase it's rainy.'
'We don't need any clothes except our night things, do we?' said George, who would have livedin a jersey and jeans all day and every day if she had been allowed to.
'You must take plenty of jerseys, another pair of jeans each, in case you get wet, your rain-coats,bathing-things, towels, a change of shoes, night things, and some cool shirts or blouses,' saidMother. Everyone groaned.
'What a frightful lot of things!' said Dick. 'There'll never be room for all those.'
'Oh yes there will,' said Mother. 'You will be sorry if you take too few clothes, get soakedthrough, have nothing to change into, and catch fearful colds that will stop you from enjoying alovely holiday like this.'
'Come on, let's get the things,' said Dick. 'Once Mother starts off about let you have. Andremember that there is plenty of ginger-beer in the locker under the second caravan.'
'It's all so thrilling,' said Anne, peering down to look at the locker into which Julian had put thebottles of ginger-beer. 'I can't believe we're really going tomorrow.'
But it was true. Dobby and Trotter were to be taken to the caravans the next day and harnessed.
How exciting for them, too, Anne thought.
Timmy couldn't quite understand all the excitement, but he shared in it, of course, and kept histail on the wag all day long. He examined the caravans thoroughly from end to end, found a rughe liked the smell of, and lay down on it. 'This is my corner,' he seemed to say. 'If you go off inthese peculiar houses on wheels, this is my own little corner.'
'We'll have the red caravan, George,' said Anne. 'The boys can have the green one. They don'tcare what colour they have - but I love red. I say, won't it be sport to sleep in those bunks? Theylook jolly comfortable.'
At last tomorrow came - and the milkman brought the sturdy little black horse, Trotter, up thedrive. Julian fetched Dobby from the field. The horses nuzzled one another and Dobby said'Hrrrumph' in a very civil horsey voice.
'They're going to like each other,' said Anne. 'Look at them nuzzling. Trotter, you're going todraw my caravan.'
14
The two horses stood patiently while they were harnessed. Dobby jerked his head once or twiceas if he was impatient to be off and stamped a little.
'Oh, Dobby, I feel like that, too!' said Anne. 'Don't you, Dick, don't you, Julian?'
'I do rather,' said Dick with a grin. 'Get up there, Dobby - that's right. Who's going to drive,Julian - take it in turns, shall we?'
'I'm going to drive our caravan,' said George. 'Anne wouldn't be any good at it, though I'll let herhave a turn at it sometimes. Driving is a man's job.'
'Well, you're only a girl!' said Anne indignantly. 'You're not a man, nor even a boy!'
George put on one of her scowls. She always wanted to be a boy, and even thought of herself asone. She didn't like to be reminded that she was only a girl. But not even George could scowl forlong that exciting morning! She soon began to caper round and about again, laughing and callingout with the others:
'We're ready! Surely we're ready!'
'Yes. Do let's go! JULIAN! He's gone indoors, the idiot, just when we want to start.'
'He's gone to get the cakes that Cook has baked this morning for us. We've heaps of food in thelarder. I feel hungry already.'
'Here's Julian. Do come on, Julian. We'll drive off without you. Good-bye, Mother! We'll sendyou a card every single day, we faithfully promise.'
Julian got up on the front of the green caravan. He clicked to Dobby. 'Get on, Dobby! We're off!
Good-bye, Mother!'
Dick sat beside him, grinning with pure happiness. The caravans moved off down the drive.
George pulled at Trotter's reins and the little horse followed the caravan in front. Anne, sittingbeside George, waved wildly.
'Good-bye, Mother! We're off at last on another adventure. Hurrah! Three cheers! Hurrah!'
3.




















































Chapter Four AWAY THEY GO!
Chapter Four AWAY THEY GO!
The caravans went slowly down the wide road. Julian was so happy that he sang at the top of hisvoice, and the others joined in the choruses. Timmy barked excitedly. He was sitting on one sideof George and as Anne was on the other George was decidedly squashed. But little things likethat did not bother her at all.
Dobby plodded on slowly, enjoying the sunshine and the little breeze that raised the hairs on hismane. Trotter followed at a short distance. He was very much interested in Timmy, and alwaysturned his head when the dog barked or got down for a run. It was fun to have two horses and adog to travel with.
It had been decided that they should make their way towards the hills where they hoped to findthe circus. Julian had traced the place in his map. He was sure it must be right because of the lakethat lay in the valley at the foot of the hills.
'See?' he said to the others, pointing. There it is - Lake Merran. I bet we'll find the circus campsomewhere near it. It would be a very good place for all their animals - no one to interfere withthe camp, plenty of water for both animals and men, and probably good farms to supply themwith food.'
'We'll have to find a good farm ourselves tonight,' said Dick. 'And ask permission to camp.
Lucky we've got that little book telling us where to go and ask.'
Anne thought with delight of the coming evening, when they would stop and camp, cook a meal,drowse over a camp-fire, and go to sleep in the little bunks. She didn't know which was nicer -ambling along down country lanes with the caravans - or preparing to settle in for the night. Shewas sure it was going to be the nicest holiday they had ever had.
'Don't you think so?' she asked George as they sat together on the driving-seat, with Timmy, foronce, trotting beside the caravan, and leaving them a little more room than usual. 'You know,most of our hols have been packed with adventures - awfully exciting, I know - but I'd like anordinary holiday now, wouldn't you - not too exciting.'
'Oh, I like adventures,' said George, shaking the reins and making Trotter do a little trot. 'Iwouldn't a bit mind having another one. But we shan't this time, Anne. No such luck!'
16
They stopped for a meal at half-past twelve, all of them feeling very hungry. Dobby and Trottermoved towards a ditch in which long, juicy grass grew, and munched away happily.
The children lay on a sunny bank and ate and drank. Anne looked at George. 'You've got morefreckles these hols, George, than you ever had in your life before.'
'That doesn't worry me!' said George, who never cared in the least how she looked, and was evenangry with her hair for being too curly, and making her look too much like a girl. 'Pass thesandwiches, Anne - the tomato ones - golly, if we always feel as hungry as this we'll have to buyeggs and bacon and butter and milk at every farm we pass!'
They set off again. Dick took his turn at driving Dobby, and Julian walked to stretch his legs.
George still wanted to drive, but Anne felt too sleepy to sit beside her with safety.
'If I shut my eyes and sleep I shall fall off the seat,' she said. 'I'd better go into the caravan andsleep there.'
So in she went, all by herself. It was cool and dim inside the caravan, for the curtains had beenpulled across the window to keep the inside cool. Anne climbed on to one of the bunks and laydown. She shut her eyes. The caravan rumbled slowly on, and the little girl fell asleep.
Julian peeped in at her and grinned. Timmy came and looked, too, but Julian wouldn't let him goin and wake Anne by licking her.
'You come and walk with me, Tim,' he said. 'You're getting fat. Exercise will do you good.'
'He's not getting fat!' called George, indignantly. 'He's a very nice shape. Don't you listen to him,Timothy.'
'Woof,' said Timmy, and trotted along at Julian's heels.
The two caravans covered quite a good distance that day, even though they went slowly. Juliandid not miss the way once. He was very good indeed at map-reading. Anne was disappointed thatthey could not see the hills they were making for, at the end of the day.
'Goodness, they're miles and miles away!' said Julian. 'We shan't arrive for at least four or fivedays, silly! Now, look out for a farm, kids. There should be one near here, where we can askpermission to camp for the night.'
'There's one, surely,' said George, after a few minutes. She pointed to where a red-roofedbuilding with moss-covered barns, stood glowing in the evening sun. Hens clucked about it, anda dog or two watched them from a gateway.
17
'Yes, that's the one,' said Julian, examining his map. 'Longman's Farm. There should be a streamnear it. There it is, look - in that field. Now, if we could get permission to camp just here, itwould be lovely.'
Julian went to the farm to see the farmer, and Anne went with him to ask for eggs. The farmerwas not there, but the farmer's wife, who liked the look of the tall, well-spoken Julian very much,gave them permission at once to spend the night in the field by the stream.
'I know you won't leave a lot of litter, or go chasing the farm animals,' she said. 'Or leave thegates open like some ill-bred campers do. And what's that you want, Missy - some new-laideggs. Yes, of course, you can have some - and you can pick the ripe plums off that tree, too, togo with your supper!'
There was bacon in the larder of the caravans, and Anne said she would fry that and an egg eachfor everyone. She was very proud of being able to cook them. She had taken a few lessons fromCook in the last few days, and was very anxious to show the others what she had learnt.
Julian said it was too hot to cook in the caravan, and he built her a fine fire in the field. Dick setthe two horses free and they wandered off to the stream, where they stood knee-high in the coolwater, enjoying it immensely. Trotter nuzzled against Dobby, and then tried to nuzzle down toTimmy, too, when the big dog came to drink beside him.
'Doesn't the bacon smell lovely?' called Anne to George, who was busy getting plates and mugsout of the red caravan. 'Let's have ginger-beer to drink, George. I'm jolly thirsty. Watch me crackthese eggs on the edge of this cup, everybody, so that I can get out the yolk and white and frythem.'
Crack! The egg broke against the edge of the cup - but its contents unfortunately fell outside thecup instead of inside. Anne went red when everyone roared with laughter.
Timmy came and licked up the mess. He was very useful for that sort of thing. 'You'd make agood dust-bin, Timmy,' said Anne. 'Here's a bit of bacon-rind, too. Catch!'
Anne fried the bacon and eggs really well. The others were most admiring, even George, andthey all cleared their plates well, wiping the last bit of fat off with bread, so that they would beeasy to wash.
'Do you think Timmy would like me to fry him a few dog-biscuits, instead of having them cold?'
said Anne, suddenly. 'Fried things are so nice. I'm sure Timmy would like fried biscuits betterthan ordinary ones.'
18
'Well, he wouldn't,' said George. 'They would just make him sick.'
'How do you know?' said Anne. 'You can't possibly tell.'
'I always know what Timmy would really like and what he wouldn't,' said George. 'And hewouldn't like his biscuits fried. Pass the plums, Dick. They look super.'
They lingered over the little camp-fire for a long time, and then Julian said it was time for bed.
Nobody minded, because they all wanted to try sleeping on the comfortable-looking bunks.
'Shall I wash at the stream or in the little sink where I washed the plates?' said Anne. 'I don'tknow which would be nicer.'
'There's more water to spare in the stream,' said Julian. 'Hurry up, won't you, because I want tolock your caravan door so that you'll be safe.'
'Lock our door!' said George, indignantly. 'You jolly well won't! Nobody's going to lock me in! Imight think I'd like to take a walk in the moonlight or something.'
'Yes, but a tramp or somebody might . . .' began Julian. George interrupted him scornfully.
'What about Timmy? You know jolly well he'd never let anyone come near our caravans, letalone into them! I won't be locked in, Julian. I couldn't bear it. Timmy's better than any lockeddoor.'
'Well, I suppose he is,' said Julian. 'All right, don't look so furious, George. Walk half the night inmoonlight if you want to - though there won't be any moon tonight, I'm sure. Golly, I'm sleepy!'
They climbed into the two caravans, after washing in the stream. They all undressed, and got intothe inviting bunks. There was a sheet, one blanket and a rug - but all the children threw off bothblanket and rug and kept only a sheet over them that hot night.
At first Anne tried sleeping in the lower bunk, beneath George - but Timmy would keep ontrying to clamber up to get to George. He wanted to lie on her feet as usual. Anne got cross.
'George! You'd better change places with me. Timmy keeps jumping on me and walking all overme trying to get up to your bunk. I'll never get to sleep.'
So George changed places, and after that Timmy made no more noise, but lay contentedly at theend of George's bunk on the rolled-up blanket, while Anne lay in the bunk above, trying not togo to sleep because it was such a lovely feeling to be inside a caravan that stood by a stream in afield.
19
Owls hooted to one another, and Timmy growled softly. The voice of the stream, contented andbabbling, could be quite clearly heard now that everything was so quiet. Anne felt her eyesclosing. Oh dear - she would simply have to go to sleep.
But something suddenly awoke her with a jump, and Timmy barked so loudly that both Anneand George almost fell out of their bunks in fright. Something bumped violently against thecaravan, and shook it from end to end! Was somebody trying to get in?
Timmy leapt to the floor and ran to the door, which George had left open a little because of theheat. Then the voices of Dick and Julian were heard.
'What's up? Are you girls all right? We're coming!' And over the wet grass raced the two boys intheir dressing-gowns. Julian ran straight into something hard and warm and solid. He yelled.
Dick switched on his torch and began to laugh helplessly. 'You ran straight into Dobby. Look athim staring at you! He must have lumbered all round our caravans making the bumps we heard.
It's all right, girls. It's only Dobby.'
So back they all went again to sleep, and this time they slept till the morning, not even stirringwhen Trotter, too, came to nuzzle round the caravan and snort softly in the night.
4.










12













































Chapter Five THE WAY TO MERRAN LAKE
Chapter Five THE WAY TO MERRAN LAKE
The next three or four days were absolutely perfect, the children thought. Blue skies, blazing sun,wayside streams to paddle or bathe in, and two houses on wheels that went rumbling for milesdown roads and lanes quite new to them - what could be lovelier for four children all on theirown?
Timmy seemed to enjoy everything thoroughly, too, and had made firm friends with Trotter, thelittle black horse. Trotter was always looking for Timmy to run beside him, and he whinnied toTimmy whenever he wanted him. The two horses were friends, too, and when they were set freeat night they made for the stream together, and stood in the water side by side, nuzzling oneanother happily.
'I like this holiday better than any we've ever had,' said Anne, busily cooking something in a pan.
'It's exciting without being adventurous. And although Julian thinks he's in charge of us, I am20
really! You'd never get your bunks made, or your meals cooked, or the caravans kept clean if itwasn't for me!'
'Don't boast!' said George, feeling rather guilty because she let Anne do so much.
'I'm not boasting!' said Anne, indignantly. 'I'm just telling the truth. Why, you've never evenmade your own bunk once, George. Not that I mind doing it. I love having two houses on wheelsto look after.'
'You're a very good little housekeeper,' said Julian. 'We couldn't possibly do without you!'
Anne blushed with pride. She took the pan off the camp-fire and put the contents on to fourplates. 'Come along!' she called, in a voice just like her mother's. 'Have your meal while it's hot.'
'I'd rather have mine when it's cold, thank you,' said George. 'It doesn't seem to have got a bitcooler, even though it's evening-time.'
They had been on the road four days now, and Anne had given up looking for the hills wherethey hoped to find the circus folk camping. In fact she secretly hoped they wouldn't find them,because she was so much enjoying the daily wanderings over the lovely countryside.
Timmy came to lick the plates. The children always let him do that now because it made them somuch easier to wash. Anne and George took the things down to a little brown brook to rinse, andJulian took out his map.
He and Dick pored over it. 'We're just about here,' said Julian, pointing. 'And if so, it looks as iftomorrow we ought to come to those hills above the lake. Then we should see the circus.'
'Good!' said Dick. 'I hope Nobby will be there. He would love to show us round, I'm sure. Hewould show us a good place to camp, too, perhaps.'
'Oh, we can find that ourselves,' said Julian, who now rather prided himself on picking excellentcamping-sites. 'Anyway, I don't want to be too near the circus. It might be a bit smelly. I'd ratherbe up in the hills some way above it. We'll get a place with a lovely view.'
'Right,' said Dick, and Julian folded up the map. The two girls came back with the cleancrockery, and Anne put it neatly back on the shelves in the red caravan. Trotter came to look forTimmy, who was lying panting under George's caravan.
Timmy wouldn't budge, so Trotter tried to get under the caravan too. But he couldn't possibly, ofcourse, for he was much too big. So he lay down on the shady side, as near to Timmy as he couldget.
21
Trotter's really a comic horse,' said Dick. 'He'd be quite good in a circus, I should think! Did yousee him chasing Timmy yesterday - just as if they were playing "He"?'
The word 'circus' reminded them of Nobby and his circus, and they began to talk eagerly of allthe animals there.
'I liked the look of the elephant,' said George. 'I wonder what his name is. And wouldn't I like tohold a monkey!'
'I bet that chimpanzee's clever,' said Dick. 'I wonder what Timmy will think of him. I hope he'llget on all right with all the animals, especially the other dogs.'
'I hope we don't see much of Nobby's uncle,' said Anne. 'He looked as if he'd like to boxanybody's ears if they so much as answered him back.'
'Well, he won't box mine,' said Julian. 'We'll keep out of his way. He doesn't look a very pleasantchap, I must say. Perhaps he won't be there.'
'Timmy, come out from under the caravan!' called George. 'It's quite cool and shady where weare. Come on!'
He came, panting. Trotter immediately got up and came with him. The little horse lay downbeside Timmy and nuzzled him. Timmy gave his nose a lick and then turned away, lookingbored.
'Isn't Trotter funny?' said Anne. 'Timmy, what will you think of all the circus animals, I wonder!
I do hope we see the circus tomorrow. Shall we get as far as the hills, Julian? Though really Ishan't mind a bit if we don't; it's so nice being on our own like this.'
They all looked out for the hills the next day as the caravans rumbled slowly down the lanes,pulled by Trotter and Dobby. And, in the afternoon, they saw them, blue in the distance.
'There they are!' said Julian. 'Those must be the Merran Hills - and Merran Lake must lie at thefoot. I say, I hope the two horses are strong enough to pull the caravans a good way up. Thereshould be an absolutely marvellous view over the lake if we get up high enough.'
The hills came nearer and nearer. They were high ones, and looked lovely in the evening light.
Julian looked at his watch.
'We shan't have time to climb them and find a camping site there tonight. I'm afraid,' he said.
'We'd better camp a little way on this evening, and then make our way up into the hills tomorrowmorning.'
22
'All right,' said Dick. 'Anything you say, Captain! There should be a farm about two miles on,according to the book. We'll camp there.'
They came to the farm, which was set by a wide stream that ran swiftly along. Julian went asusual to ask permission to camp, and Dick went with him, leaving the two girls to prepare ameal.
Julian easily got permission, and the farmer's daughter, a plump jolly girl, sold the boys eggs,bacon, milk, and butter, besides a little crock of yellow cream. She also offered them raspberriesfrom the garden if they liked to pick them and have them with the cream.
'Oh, I say, thanks awfully,' said Julian. 'Could you tell me if there's a circus camping in thosehills? Somewhere by the lake.'
'Yes, it went by about a week ago,' said the girl. 'It goes camping there every year, for a rest. Ialways watch the caravans go by - quite a treat in a quiet place like this! One year they had lions,and at nights I could hear them roaring away. That fair frizzled my spine!'
The boys said good-bye and went off, chuckling to think of the farm-girl's spine being 'fairfrizzled' by the roars of the distant lions.
'Well, it looks as if we'll pass the circus camp tomorrow all right,' said Julian. 'I shall enjoycamping up in the hills, won't you, Dick? It will be cooler up there, I expect - usually there's abreeze on the hills.'
'I hope we shan't get our spines fair frizzled by the noise of the circus animals at night,' grinnedDick. 'I feel fair frizzled up by the sun today, I must say!'
The next morning the caravans set off again on what the children hoped would be the last lap oftheir journey. They would find a lovely camping-place and stay there till they had to go home.
Julian had remembered to send a post-card each day to his parents, telling them where he was,and that everything was fine. He had found out from the farm-girl the right address for thatdistrict, and he planned to arrange with the nearest post office to take in any letters for them thatcame. They had not been able to receive any post, of course, when they were wandering about intheir caravans.
Dobby and Trotter walked sedately down the narrow country lane that led towards the hills.
Suddenly George caught sight of something flashing blue between the trees.
'Look! There's the lake! Merran Lake!' she shouted. 'Make Dobby go more quickly, Ju. I'mlonging to come out into the open and see the lake.'
23
Soon the lane ended in a broad cart-track that led over a heathery common. The common slopedright down to the edge of an enormous blue lake that lay glittering in the August sunshine.
'I say! Isn't it magnificent?' said Dick, stopping Dobby with a pull. 'Come on, let's get down andgo to the edge, Julian. Come on, girls!'
'It's lovely!' said Anne, jumping down from the driving-seat of the red caravan. 'Oh, do let's bathestraight away!'
'Yes, let's,' said Julian, and they all dived into their caravans, stripped off jeans and blouses andpulled on bathing-things. Then, without even a towel to dry themselves on, they tore down to thelake-side, eager to plunge into its blue coolness.
It was very warm at the edge of the water, but further in, where it was deep, the lake wasdeliciously cold. All the children could swim strongly, and they splashed and yelled in delight.
The bottom of the lake was sandy, so the water was as clear as crystal.
When they were tired they all came out and lay on the warm sandy bank of the lake. They driedat once in the sun. Then as soon as they felt too hot in they went again, squealing with joy at thecold water.
'What gorgeous fun to come down here every day and bathe!' said Dick. 'Get away, Timmy,when I'm swimming on my back. Timmy's enjoying the bathe as much as we are, George.'
'Yes, and old Trotter wants to come in, too,' shouted Julian. 'Look at him - he's brought the redcaravan right down to the edge of the lake. He'll be in the water with it if we don't stop him!'
They decided to have a picnic by the lake, and to set the horses free to have a bathe if theywanted one. But all they wanted was to drink and to stand knee-high in the water, swishing theirtails to keep away the flies that worried them all day long.
'Where's the circus camp?' said George suddenly as they sat munching ham and tomatosandwiches. 'I can't see it.'
The children looked all round the edge of the lake, which stretched as far as they could see. Atlast George's sharp eyes saw a small spire of smoke rising in the air about a mile or so round thelake.
'The camp must be in that hollow at the foot of the hills over there,' she said. 'I expect the roadleads round to it. We'll go that way, shall we, and then go up into the hills behind?'
24
'Yes,' agreed Julian. 'We shall have plenty of time to have a word with Nobby, and to find a goodcamping-place before night comes - and to find a farm, too, that will let us have food. Won'tNobby be surprised to see us?'
They cleared up, put the horses into their harness again and set off for the circus camp. Now fora bit of excitement!
5.
































3000

























1600



Chapter Six THE CIRCUS CAMP AND NOBBY
Chapter Six THE CIRCUS CAMP AND NOBBY
It did not take the caravans very long to come in sight of the circus camp. As George had said, itwas in a comfortable hollow, set at the foot of the hills - a quiet spot, well away from anydwelling-places, where the circus animals could enjoy a certain amount of freedom and beexercised in peace.
The caravans were set round in a wide circle. Tents had been put up here and there. The bigelephant was tied by a thick rope to a stout tree. Dogs ran about everywhere, and a string ofshining horses was being paraded round a large field nearby.
'There they all are!' said Anne, excitedly, standing up on the driving-seat to see better. 'Golly, thechimpanzee is loose, isn't he? No, he isn't - someone has got him on a rope. Is it Nobby withhim?'
'Yes, it is. I say, fancy walking about with a live chimp like that!' said Julian.
The children looked at everything with the greatest interest as their caravans came nearer to thecircus camp. Few people seemed to be about that hot afternoon. Nobby was there with thechimpanzee, and one or two women were stirring pots over small fires - but that seemed to be all.
The circus dogs set up a great barking as the red and green caravans drew nearer. One or twomen came out of the tents and looked up the track that led to the camp. They pointed to thechildren's caravans and seemed astonished.
Nobby, with the chimpanzee held firmly by the paw, came out of the camp in curiosity to meetthe strange caravans. Julian hailed him.
'Hi, Nobby! You didn't think you'd see us here, did you?'
25
Nobby was amazed to hear his name called. At first he did not remember the children at all. Thenhe gave a yell.
'Jumping Jiminy, it's you kids I saw away back on the road! What are you doing here?'
Timmy growled ominously and George called to Nobby. 'He's never seen a chimpanzee before.
Do you think they'll be friends?'
'Don't know,' said Nobby doubtfully. 'Old Pongo likes the circus dogs all right. Anyway, don'tyou let your dog fly at Pongo, or he'll be eaten alive! A chimp is very strong, you know.'
'Could I make friends with Pongo, do you think?' asked George. 'If he would shake hands withme, or something, Timmy would know I was friends with him and he'd be all right. WouldPongo make friends with me?'
''Course he will!' said Nobby. 'He's the sweetest-tempered chimp alive - ain't you, Pongo? Now,shake hands with the lady.'
Anne didn't feel at all inclined to go near the chimpanzee, but George was quite fearless. Shewalked up to the big animal and held out her hand. The chimpanzee took it at once, raised it tohis mouth and pretended to nibble it, making friendly noises all the time.
George laughed. 'He's nice, isn't he?' she said. 'Timmy, this is Pongo, a friend. Nice Pongo, goodPongo!'
She patted Pongo on the shoulder to show Timmy that she liked the chimpanzee, and Pongo atonce patted her on the shoulder, too, grinning amiably. He then patted her on the head and pulledone of her curls.
Timmy wagged his tail a little. He looked very doubtful indeed. What was this strange creaturethat his mistress appeared to like so much. He took a step towards Pongo.
'Come on, Timmy, say how do you do to Pongo,' said George. 'Like this.' And she shook handswith the chimpanzee again. This time he wouldn't let her hand go, but went on shaking it up anddown as if he was pumping water with a pump-handle.
'He won't let go,' said George.
'Don't be naughty, Pongo,' said Nobby in a stern voice. Pongo at once dropped George's handand covered his face with a hairy paw as if he was ashamed. But the children saw that he waspeeping through his fingers with wicked eyes that twinkled with fun.
'He's a real monkey!' said George, laughing.
26
'You're wrong - he's an ape!' said Nobby. 'Ah, here comes Timmy to make friends. JumpingJiminy, they're shaking paws!'
So they were. Timmy, having once made up his mind that Pongo was to be a friend, rememberedhis manners and held out his right paw as he had been taught. Pongo seized it and shook itvigorously. Then he walked round to the back of Timmy and shook hands with his tail. Timmydidn't know what to make of it all.
The children yelled with laughter, and Timmy sat down firmly on his tail. Then he stood upagain, his tail wagging, for Barker and Growler had come rushing up. Timmy remembered them,and they remembered him.
'Well, they're making friends all right,' said Nobby, pleased. 'Now they'll introduce Timmy to allthe other dogs, and there'll be no trouble. Hey, look out for Pongo, there!'
The chimpanzee had stolen round to the back of Julian and was slipping his hand into the boy'spocket. Nobby went to him and slapped the chimpanzee's paw hard.
'Naughty! Bad boy! Pickpocket!'
The children laughed again when the chimpanzee covered his face with his paws, pretending tobe ashamed.
'You'll have to watch out when Pongo's about,' said Nobby. 'He loves to take things out ofpeople's pockets. I say - do tell me - are those your caravans? Aren't they posh?'
'They've been lent to us,' said Dick. 'As a matter of fact, it was seeing your circus go by, with allits gay caravans, that made us think of borrowing caravans, too, and coming away for a holiday.'
'And as you'd told us where you were going we thought we'd follow you and find you out, andget you to show us round the camp,' said Julian. 'Hope you don't mind.'
'I'm proud,' said Nobby, going a bright red. ''Tisn't often folks want to make friends with a circusfellow like me - not gentlefolk like you, I mean. I'll be proud to show you round - and you canmake friends with every blessed monkey, dog and horse on the place!'
'Oh, thanks!' said all four at once.
'Jolly decent of you,' said Dick. 'Gosh, look at that chimp - he's trying to shake hands withTimmy's tail again. I bet he's funny in the circus ring, isn't he, Nobby?'
'He's a scream,' said Nobby. 'Brings the house down. You should see him act with my UncleDan. He's the chief clown, you know. Pongo is just as big a clown as my uncle is - it's a fairscream to see them act the fool together.'
27
'I wish we could see them,' said Anne. 'Acting in the ring, I mean. Will your uncle mind youshowing us all the animals and everything?'
'Why should he?' said Nobby. 'Shan't ask him! But you'll mind and act polite to him, won't you?
He's worse than a tiger when he's in a temper. They call him Tiger Dan because of his rages.'
Anne didn't like the sound of that at all - Tiger Dan! It sounded very fierce and savage.
'I hope he isn't about anywhere now,' she said nervously, looking round.
'No. He's gone off somewhere,' said Nobby. 'He's a lonesome sort of chap - got no friends muchin the circus, except Lou, the acrobat. That's Lou over there.'
Lou was a long-limbed, loose-jointed fellow with an ugly face, and a crop of black shining hairthat curled tightly. He sat on the steps of a caravan, smoking a pipe and reading a paper. Thechildren thought that he and Tiger Dan would make a good pair - bad-tempered, scowling andunfriendly. They all made up their minds that they would have as little as possible to do with Louthe acrobat and Tiger Dan the clown.
'Is he a very good acrobat?' said Anne in a low voice, though Lou was much too far away to hearher.
'Fine. First class,' said Nobby with admiration in his voice. 'He can climb anything anywhere - hecould go up that tree there like a monkey - and I've seen him climb a drainpipe straight up theside of a tall building just like a cat. He's a marvel. You should see him on the tight-rope, too. Hecan dance on it!'
The children gazed at Lou with awe. He felt their glances, looked up and scowled. 'Well,'
thought Julian, 'he may be the finest acrobat that ever lived - but he's a jolly nasty-lookingfellow. There's not much to choose between him and Tiger Dan!'
Lou got up, uncurling his long body like a cat. He moved easily and softly. He loped to Nobby,still with the ugly scowl on his face.
'Who are these kids?' he said. 'What are they doing messing about here?'
'We're not messing about,' said Julian politely. 'We came to see Nobby. We've seen him before.'
Lou looked at Julian as if he was something that smelt nasty. 'Them your caravans?' he askedjerking his head towards them.
'Yes,' said Julian.
'Posh, aren't you?' said Lou sneeringly.
'Not particularly,' said Julian, still polite.
28
'Any grown-ups with you?' asked Lou.
'No. I'm in charge,' said Julian, 'and we've got a dog that flies at people he doesn't like.'
Timmy clearly didn't like Lou. He stood near him, growling in his throat. Lou kicked out at him.
George caught hold of Timmy's collar just in time. 'Down Tim, down!' she cried. Then sheturned on Lou, her eyes blazing.
'Don't you dare kick my dog!' she shouted. 'He'll have you down on the ground if you do. Youkeep out of his way, or he'll go for you now.'
Lou spat on the ground in contempt and turned to go. 'You clear out,' he said. 'We don't want nokids messing about here. And I ain't afraid of no dog. I got ways of dealing with bad dogs.'
'What do you mean by that?' yelled George, still in a furious temper. But Lou did not bother toreply. He went up the steps of his caravan and slammed the door shut. Timmy barked angrily andtugged at his collar, which George was still holding firmly.
'Now you've torn it!' said Nobby dismally. 'If Lou catches you about anywhere he'll hoof youout. And you be careful of that dog of yours, or he'll disappear.'
George was angry and alarmed. 'Disappear! What do you mean? If you think Timmy would letanyone steal him, you're wrong.'
'All right, all right. I'm only telling you. Don't fly at me like that!' said Nobby. 'Jumping Jiminy,look at that chimp. He's gone inside one of your caravans!'
The sudden storm was forgotten as everyone rushed to the green caravan. Pongo was inside,helping himself liberally from a tin of sweets. As soon as he saw the children he groaned andcovered his face with his paws - but he sucked hard at the sweets all the time.
'Pongo! Bad boy! Come here!' scolded Nobby. 'Shall I whip you?'
'Oh, no, don't,' begged Anne. 'He's a scamp, but I do like him. We've plenty of sweets to spare.
You have some, too, Nobby.'
'Well, thank you,' said Nobby, and helped himself. He grinned round at everyone. 'Nice to havefriends like you,' he said. 'Ain't it, Pongo?'
6.








































































Chapter Seven A TEA-PARTY - AND A VISIT IN THE NIGHT
Chapter Seven A TEA-PARTY - AND A VISIT IN THE NIGHT
Nobody particularly wanted to see round the camp just then, as Lou had been so unpleasant. Soinstead they showed the admiring Nobby over the two caravans. He had never seen suchbeauties.
'Jumping Jiminy, they're like palaces!' he said. 'Do you mean to say them taps turn on and watercomes out? Can I turn on a tap? I've never turned a tap in my life!'
He turned the taps on and off a dozen times, exclaiming in wonder to see the water come gushingout. He thumped the bunks to see how soft they were. He admired the gay soft rugs and theshining crockery. He was, in fact, a very nice guest to have, and the children liked him more andmore. They liked Barker and Growler, too, who were both well-behaved, obedient, merry dogs.
Pongo, of course, wanted to turn the taps on and off, too, and he threw all the coverings off thetwo bunks to see what was underneath. He also took the kettle off the stove put the spout to histhick lips and drank all the water out of it very noisily indeed.
'You're forgetting your manners, Pongo!' said Nobby in horror, and snatched the kettle awayfrom him. Anne squealed with laughter. She loved the chimpanzee, and he seemed to have takena great fancy to Anne, too. He followed her about and stroked her hair and made funnyaffectionate noises.
'Would you like to stay and have tea here with us?' asked Julian, looking at his watch. 'It's abouttime.'
'Coo - I don't have tea as a rule,' said Nobby. 'Yes, I'd like to. Sure you don't mind me staying,though? I ain't got your manners, I know, and I'm a bit dirty, and not your sort at all. But you'rereal kind.'
'We'd love to have you stay,' said Anne in delight. 'I'll cut some bread and butter and make somesandwiches. Do you like potted meat sandwiches, Nobby?'
'Don't I just!' said Nobby. 'And Pongo does, too. Don't you let him get near them or he'll finishup the lot.'
It was a pleasant and amusing little tea-party. They all sat out on the heather, on the shady side ofthe caravan. Barker and Growler sat with Timmy. Pongo sat beside Anne, taking bits of30
sandwich from her most politely. Nobby enjoyed his tea immensely, eating more sandwichesthan anyone and talking all the time with his mouth full.
He made the four children yell with laughter. He imitated his Uncle Dan doing some of hisclown tricks. He turned cart-wheels all round the caravan while he was waiting for Anne to cutmore sandwiches. He stood solemnly on his head and ate a sandwich like that, much to Timmy'samazement. Timmy walked round and round him, and sniffed at his face as if to say: 'Strange!
No legs! Something's gone wrong.'
At last nobody could eat any more. Nobby stood up to go, suddenly wondering if he had stayedtoo long.
'I was enjoying myself so much I forgot the time,' he said awkwardly. 'Bet I've stayed too longand you've been too polite to tell me to get out. Coo, that wasn't half a good tea! Thanks, Miss,awfully, for all them delicious sandwiches. 'Fraid my manners aren't like yours, kids, but thanksfor a very good time.'
'You've got very good manners indeed,' said Anne, warmly. 'You've been a splendid guest. Comeagain, won't you?'
'Well, thanks, I will,' said Nobby, forgetting his sudden awkwardness, and beaming round.
'Where's Pongo? Look at that chimp! He's got one of your hankies, and he's blowing his nose!'
Anne squealed in delight. 'He can keep it!' she said. 'It's only an old one.'
'Will you be here camping for long?' asked Nobby.
'Well, not just exactly here, said Julian. 'We thought of going up higher into the hills. It will becooler there. But we might camp here just for tonight. We meant to go up higher this evening,but we might as well stay here and go tomorrow morning now. Perhaps we could see round thecamp tomorrow morning.'
'Not if Lou's there you can't,' said Nobby. 'Once he's told people to clear out he means it. But itwill be all right if he's not. I'll come and tell you.'
'All right,' said Julian. 'I'm not afraid of Lou - but we don't want to get you into any trouble,Nobby. If Lou's there tomorrow morning, we'll go on up into the hills, and you can always signalto us if he's out of the camp, and we can come down any time. And mind you come up and see uswhen you want to.'
'And bring Pongo,' said Anne.
'You bet!' said Nobby. 'Well - so long!'
31
He went off with Barker and Growler at his heels and with Pongo held firmly by the paw. Pongodidn't want to go at all. He kept pulling back like a naughty child.
'I do like Nobby and Pongo,' said Anne. 'I wonder what Mummy would say if she knew we'dmade friends with a chimpanzee. She'd have a fit.'
Julian suddenly looked rather doubtful. He was wondering if he had done right to follow thecircus and let Anne and the others make friends with such queer folk and even queerer animals.
But Nobby was so nice. He was sure his mother would like Nobby. And they could easily keepaway from Tiger Dan and Lou the acrobat.
'Have we got enough to eat for supper tonight and breakfast tomorrow?' he asked Anne. 'Becausethere doesn't seem to be a farm near enough to go to just here. But Nobby says there's one up onthe hill up there - the circus folk get their supplies from it, too - what they don't get from thenearest town. Apparently somebody goes in each day to shop.'
'I'll just see what we've got in the larder, Julian,' said Anne, getting up. She knew perfectly wellwhat there was in the larder - but it made her feel grown-up and important to go and look. It wasnice to feel like that when she so often felt small and young, and the others were big and knew somuch.
She called back to them: 'I've got eggs and tomatoes and potted meat, and plenty of bread, and acake we bought today, and a pound of butter.'
'That's all right then,' said Julian. 'We won't bother about going to the farm tonight.'
When darkness fell that night, there were clouds across the sky for the first time. Not a starshowed and there was no moon. It was pitch-black, and Julian, looking out of the window of hiscaravan, before clambering into his bunk, could not even see a shimmer of water from the lake.
He got into his bunk and pulled the covers up. In the other caravan George and Anne wereasleep. Timmy was, as usual, on George's feet. She had pushed him off them once or twice, butnow that she was asleep he was undisturbed, and lay heavily across her ankles, his head on hispaws.
Suddenly his ears cocked up. He raised his head cautiously. Then he growled softly in his throat.
He had heard something. He sat there stiffly, listening. He could hear footsteps from twodifferent directions. Then he heard voices - cautious voices, low and muffled.
Timmy growled again, more loudly. George awoke and reached for his collar. 'What's thematter?' she whispered. Timmy listened and so did she. They both heard the voices.
32
George slipped quietly out of the bunk and went to the half-open door of the caravan. She couldnot see anything outside at all because it was so dark. 'Don't make a noise, Tim,' she whispered.
Timmy understood. He did not growl again, but George could feel the hairs rising all along theback of his neck.
The voices seemed to come from not very far away. Two men must be talking together, Georgethought. Then she heard a match struck, and in its light she saw two men lighting their cigarettesfrom the same match. She recognised them at once - they were Nobby's Uncle Dan and Lou theacrobat.
What were they doing there? Had they got a meeting-place there - or had they come to stealsomething from the caravans? George wished she could tell Julian and Dick - but she did not liketo go out of her caravan in case the men heard her.
At first she could not hear anything the men said. They were discussing something veryearnestly. Then one raised his voice.
'Okay, then - that's settled.' Then came the sound of footsteps again, this time towards George'scaravan. The men walked straight into the side of it, exclaimed in surprise and pain, and began tofeel about to find out what they had walked into.
'It's those posh caravans!' George heard Lou exclaim. 'Still here! I told those kids to clear out!'
'What kids?' asked Tiger Dan, in surprise. Evidently he had come back in the dark and did notknow they had arrived.
'Some kids Nobby knows,' said Lou in an angry voice. He rapped loudly on the walls of thecaravan, and Anne woke up with a jump. George, just inside the caravan with Timmy, jumped infright, too. Timmy barked in rage.
Julian and Dick woke up. Julian flashed on his torch and went to his door. The light picked outthe two men standing by George's caravan.
'What are you doing here at this time of night?' said Julian. 'Making a row like that! Clear off!'
This was quite the wrong thing to have said to Dan and Lou, both bad-tempered men who feltthat the whole of the camping-ground around belonged to them and the circus.
'Who do you think you're talking to?' shouted Dan angrily. 'You're the ones to clear off! Do youhear?'
'Didn't I tell you to clear out this afternoon?' yelled Lou, losing his temper, too. 'You do as you'retold, you young rogue, or I'll set the dogs on you and have you chased for miles.'
33
Anne began to cry. George trembled with rage. Timmy growled. Julian spoke calmly butdeterminedly.
'We're going in the morning, as we meant. But if you're suggesting we should go now, you canthink again. This is as much our camping-ground as yours. Now get off, and don't comedisturbing us again.'
'I'll give you a leathering, you young cockerel!' cried Lou, and began to unfasten the leather beltfrom round his waist.
George let go her hold of Timmy's collar. 'Go for them, Timmy,' she said. 'But don't bite. Justworry them!'
Timmy sprang down to the ground with a joyful bark. He flung himself at the two men. He knewwhat George wanted him to do, and although he longed to snap at the two rogues with his sharpteeth, he didn't. He pretended to, though, and growled so fiercely that they were scared out oftheir wits.
Lou hit out at Timmy, threatening to kill him. But Timmy cared for no threats of that kind. Hegot hold of Lou's right trouser-leg, pulled, and ripped it open from knee to ankle.
'Come on - the dog's mad!' cried Dan. 'He'll have us by the throat if we don't go. Call him off,you kids. We're going. But mind you clear out in the morning, or we'll see you do! We'll pay youout one day.'
Seeing that the men really meant to go, George whistled to Timmy. 'Come here, Tim. Stand onguard till they're really gone. Fly at them if they come back.'
But the men soon disappeared - and nothing would have made either of them come back and faceTimmy again that night!
7.




























































Chapter Eight UP IN THE HILLS
Chapter Eight UP IN THE HILLS
The four children were upset and puzzled by the behaviour of the two men. George told howTimmy had wakened her by growling and how she had heard the men talking together in lowvoices.
'I don't really think they had come to steal anything,' she said. 'I think they were just meeting nearhere for a secret talk. They didn't know the caravans were here and walked straight into ours.'
'They're bad-tempered brutes,' said Julian. 'And I don't care what you say, George, I'm going tolock your caravan door tonight. I know you've got Timmy - but I'm not running any risk of thesemen coming back, Timmy or no Timmy.'
Anne was so scared that George consented to let Julian lock the red caravan door. Timmy waslocked in with them. The boys went back to their own caravan, and Julian locked his door, too,from the inside. He wanted to be on the safe side.
'I'll be glad to get away from here up into the hills,' he said. 'I shan't feel safe as long as we arequite so near the camp. We'll be all right up in the hills.'
'We'll go first thing after breakfast,' said Dick, settling down to his bunk again. 'Gosh, it's a goodthing the girls had Timmy tonight. Those fellows looked as if they meant to go for you properly,Ju.'
'Yes. I shouldn't have had much chance against the two of them either,' said Julian. 'They areboth hefty, strong fellows.'
The next morning all the four awoke early. Nobody felt inclined to lie and snooze - all of themwere anxious to get off before Lou and Dan appeared again.
'You get the breakfast, Anne and George, and Dick and I will catch the horses and put them inthe caravan shafts,' said Julian. 'Then we shall be ready to go off immediately after breakfast.'
They had breakfast and cleared up. They got up on to the driving-seats and were just about todrive away when Lou and Dan came down the track towards them.
'Oh, you're going, are you?' said Dan, with an ugly grin on his face. 'That's right. Nice to see kidsso obedient. Where you going?'
'Up into the hills,' said Julian. 'Not that it's anything to do with you where we go.'
35
'Why don't you go round the foot of the hills, instead of over the top?' said Lou. 'Silly way to goup there, with the caravans dragging them horses back all the way.'
Julian was just about to say that he didn't intend to go right up to the top of the hills and over tothe other side, when he stopped himself. No - just as well not to let these fellows know that hemeant to camp up there, or they might come and worry them all again.
He clicked to Dobby. 'We're going the way we want to go,' he said to Lou in a curt voice. 'Andthat's up the hill. Get out of the way, please.'
As Dobby was walking straight at them, the men had to jump to one side. They scowled at thefour children. Then they all heard the sound of running footsteps and along came Nobby, withBarker and Growler at his heels as usual.
'Hey, what you going so early for?' he yelled. 'Let me come part of the way with you.'
'No, you don't,' said his uncle, and gave the surprised boy an unexpected cuff. 'I've told these kidsto clear out, and they're going. I won't have no meddling strangers round this camp. And don'tyou kid yourself they want to make friends with you, see! You go and get out those dogs andexercise them, or I'll give you another box on the ears that'll make you see all the stars in thesky.'
Nobby stared at him, angry and afraid. He knew his uncle too well to defy him. He turned on hisheel sullenly and went off back to the camp. The caravans overtook him on the way. Juliancalled to him in a low voice:
'Cheer up, Nobby. We'll be waiting for you up in the hills - don't tell Lou and your uncle about it.
Let them think we've gone right away. Bring Pongo up sometime!'
Nobby grinned. 'Right you are!' he said. 'I can bring the dogs up to exercise them, too - but nottoday. I daren't today. And as soon as those two are safely out for the day I'll bring you down tothe camp and show you round, see? That all right?'
'Fine,' said Julian, and drove on. Neither Lou nor Dan had heard a word, or even guessed that thisconversation was going on, for Nobby had been careful to walk on all the time and not even turnhis face towards the children.
The road wound upwards into the hills. At first it was not very steep, but wound to and fro acrossthe side of the hill. Half-way up the caravans crossed a stone bridge under which a very swiftstream flowed.
36
'That stream's in a hurry!' said George, watching it bubble and gurgle downwards. 'Look - is thatwhere it starts from - just there in the hillside?'
She pointed some way up the hill, and it seemed as if the stream really did suddenly start justwhere she pointed.
'But it can't suddenly start there - not such a big fast stream as this!' said Julian, stopping Dobbyon the other side of the bridge. 'Let's go and see, I'm thirsty, and if there's a spring there, it willbe very cold and clear - lovely to drink from. Come on, we'll go and see.'
But there was no spring. The stream did not 'begin' just there, but flowed out of a hole in thehillside, as big and as fast as it was just under the stone bridge. The children bent down andpeered into the water-filled hole.
'It comes out from inside the hill,' said Anne, surprised. 'Fancy it running around in the hill itself.
It must be glad to find a way out!'
They didn't like to drink it as it was not the clear, fresh spring they had hoped to find. But,wandering a little farther on, they came to a real spring that gushed out from beneath a stone,cold and crystal clear. They drank from this and voted that it was the nicest drink they had everhad in their lives. Dick followed the spring-water downwards and saw that it joined the littlerushing stream.
'I suppose it flows into the lake,' he said. 'Come on. Let's get on and find a farm, Julian. I'm sure Iheard the crowing of a cock just then, so one can't be far away.'
They went round a bend of the hill and saw the farm, a rambling collection of old buildingssprawling down the hillside. Hens ran about, clucking. Sheep grazed above the farm, and cowschewed the cud in fields nearby. A man was working not far off, and Julian hailed him. 'Goodmorning! Are you the farmer?'
'No. Farmer's over yonder,' said the man, pointing to a barn near the farmhouse. 'Be careful ofthe dogs.'
The two caravans went on towards the farm. The farmer heard them coming and came out withhis dogs. When he saw that there were only children driving the two caravans he lookedsurprised.
Julian had a polite, well-mannered way with him that all the grown-ups liked. Soon he was deepin a talk with the man, with most satisfactory results. The farmer was willing to supply them with37
any farm produce they wanted, and they could have as much milk as they liked at any time. Hiswife, he was sure, would cook them anything they asked her to, and bake them cakes, too.
'Perhaps I could arrange payment with her?' said Julian. 'I'd like to pay for everything as I buy it.'
'That's right, son,' said the farmer. 'Always pay your way as you go along, and you won't come toany harm. You go and see my old woman. She likes children and she'll make you right welcome.
Where are you going to camp?'
'I'd like to camp somewhere with a fine view over the lake,' said Julian. 'We can't see it from justhere. Maybe a bit farther on we'll get just the view I want.'
'Yes, you go on about half a mile,' said the farmer. The track goes that far - and when you cometo a clump of fine birch trees you'll see a sheltered hollow, set right in the hillside, with awonderful fine view over the lake. You can pull your caravans in there, son, and you'll besheltered from the winds.'
'Thanks awfully,' said all the children together, thinking what a nice man this old farmer was.
How different from Lou and Dan, with their threats and rages!
'We'll go and see your wife first, sir,' said Julian. Then we'll go on and pull into the hollow yousuggest. We'll be seeing you again some time, I expect.'
They went to see the farmer's wife, a fat, round-cheeked old woman, whose little curranty eyestwinkled with good humour. She made them very welcome, gave them hot buns from the ovenand told them to help themselves to the little purple plums on the tree outside the old farmhouse.
Julian arranged to pay on the spot for anything they bought each day. The prices the farmer'swife asked seemed very low indeed, but she would not hear of taking any more money for hergoods.
'It'll be a pleasure to see your bonny faces at my door!' she said. That'll be part of my payment,see? I can tell you're well-brought-up children by your nice manners and ways. You'll not bedoing any damage or foolishness on the farm, I know.'
The children came away laden with all kinds of food, from eggs and ham to scones and gingercakes. She pushed a bottle of raspberry syrup into Anne's hand when the little girl said good-bye.
But when Julian turned back to pay her for it she was quite annoyed.
'If I want to make a present to somebody I'll do it!' she said. 'Go on with you . . . paying for thisand paying for that. I'll have a little something extra for you each time, and don't you dare to askto pay for it, or I'll be after you with my rolling pin!'
38
'Isn't she awfully nice?' said Anne as they made their way back to the caravans. 'Even Timmyoffered to shake hands with her without you telling him to, George - and he hardly ever does thatto anyone, does he?'
They packed the things away into the larder, got up into the driving-seats, clicked to Dobby andTrotter and set off up the track again.
Just over half a mile away was a clump of birch trees. 'We'll find that sheltered hollow nearthem,' said Julian.
'Yes, look - there it is - set back into the hill, a really cosy place! Just right for camping in - andoh, what a magnificent view!'
It certainly was. They could see right down the steep hillside to the lake. It lay spread out, flatand smooth, like an enchanted mirror. From where they were they could now see right to theopposite banks of the lake - and it was indeed a big stretch of water.
'Isn't it blue?' said Anne, staring. 'Bluer even than the sky. Oh, won't it be lovely to see thismarvellous view every single day we're here?'
Julian backed the caravans into the hollow. Heather grew there, like a springy purple carpet.
Harebells, pale as an evening sky, grew in clumps in crevices of the hill behind. It was a lovelyspot for camping in.
George's sharp ears caught the sound of water and she went to look for it. She called back to theothers. 'What do you think? There's another spring here, coming out of the hill. Drinking andwashing water laid on! Aren't we lucky?'
'We certainly are,' said Julian. 'It's a lovely place - and nobody will disturb us here!'
But he spoke too soon!
8.
























































Chapter Nine AN UNPLEASANT MEETING
Chapter Nine AN UNPLEASANT MEETING
It really was fun settling into that cosy hollow. The two caravans were backed in side by side.
The horses were taken out and led to a big field where the farmer's horses were kept when theyhad done their day's work. Trotter and Dobby seemed very pleased with the green, sloping field.
It had a spring of its own that ran into a stone trough and out of it, keeping it always filled withfresh cold water. Both horses went to take a long drink.
'Well, that settles the two horses all right,' said Julian. 'We'll tell the farmer he can borrow themif he wants to - he'll be harvesting soon and may like to have Dobby and Trotter for a few days.
They will enjoy hobnobbing with other horses again.'
At the front of the hollow was a rocky ledge, hung with heathery tufts. This is the front seat forLake View!' said Anne. 'Oh, it's warm from the sun! How lovely!'
'I vote we have all our meals on this ledge,' said George, sitting down too. 'It's comfortable androomy - and flat enough to take our cups and plates without spilling anything - and honestly theview from here is too gorgeous for words. Can anyone see anything of the circus from up here?'
'There's a spire or two of smoke over yonder,' said Dick, pointing. 'I should think that's where thecamp is. And look - there's a boat pushing out on the lake - doesn't it look tiny?'
'Perhaps Nobby is in it,' said Anne. 'Haven't we brought any field-glasses, Julian? I thought wehad.'
'Yes - we have,' said Julian, remembering. 'I'll get them.' He went to the green caravan,rummaged about in the drawers, and came out with his field-glasses swinging on the end of theirstraps.
'Here we are!' he said, and set them to his eyes. 'Yes - I can see the boat clearly now - and it isNobby in it - but who's with him? Golly, it's Pongo!'
Everyone had to look through the glasses to see Nobby and Pongo in the boat. 'You know, wecould always get Nobby to signal to us somehow from his boat when he wanted to tell us thatLou and his uncle were away,' said Dick. Then we should know it was safe, and we could popdown to the camp and see round it.'
'Yes. Good idea,' said George. 'Give me the glasses, Dick. Timmy wants to have a turn at seeing,too.'
40
'He can't see through glasses like these, idiot,' said Dick, handing them to George. But Timmymost solemnly glued his eyes to the glasses, and appeared to be looking through them veryearnestly indeed.
'Woof,' he remarked, when he took his eyes away at last.
'He says he's seen Nobby and Pongo, too,' said George, and the others laughed. Anne half-believed that he had. Timmy was such an extraordinary dog, she thought, as she patted hissmooth head.
It was a terribly hot day. Too hot to do anything - even to walk down to the lake and bathe! Thechildren were glad they were up in the hills, for at least there was a little breeze that fanned themnow and again. They did not expect to see Nobby again that day, but they hoped he would comeup the next day. If not they would go down and bathe in the lake and hope to see him somewhereabout there.
Soon the rocky ledge got too hot to sit on. The children retreated to the clump of birch trees,which at least cast some shade. They took books with them, and Timmy came along, too, pantingas if he had run for miles. He kept going off to the little spring to drink. Anne filled a big bowlwith the cold water, and stood it in a breezy place near by, with a cup to dip into it. They werethirsty all day long, and it was pleasant to dip a cup into the bowl of spring-water and drink.
The lake was unbelievably blue that day, and lay as still as a mirror. Nobby's boat was no longerin the water. He and Pongo had gone. There was not a single movement to be seen down by thelake.
'Shall we go down to the lake this evening, when it's cooler, and bathe there?' said Julian, at tea-time. 'We haven't had much exercise today, and it would do us good to walk down and have aswim. We won't take Timmy in case we happen to come across Lou or Dan. He'd certainly fly atthem today. We can always keep an eye open for those two and avoid them ourselves - butTimmy would go for them as soon as he spotted them. We might be in the water and unable tostop him.'
'Anyway, he'll guard the caravans for us,' said Anne. 'Well, I'll just take these cups and plates andrinse them in the stream. Nobody wants any more to eat, do they?'
'Too hot,' said Dick, rolling over on to his back. 'I wish we were by the lake at this moment - I'dgo straight into the water now!'
41
At half-past six it was cooler, and the four children set off down the hill. Timmy was angry andhurt at being left behind.
'You're to be on guard, Timmy,' said George firmly. 'See? Don't let anyone come near ourcaravans. On guard, Timmy!'
'Woof,' said Timmy dismally, and put his tail down. On guard! Didn't George know that thecaravans wouldn't walk off by themselves, and that he wanted a good splash in the lake?
Still, he stayed behind, standing on the rocky ledge to see the last of the children, his ears cockedto hear their voices and his tail still down in disgust. Then he went and lay down beneathGeorge's caravan, and waited patiently for his friends to return.
The children went down the hill with their bathing-things, taking short cuts, and leaping likegoats over the steep bits. It had seemed quite a long way up when they had gone so slowly in thecaravans with Dobby and Trotter - but it wasn't nearly so far when they could go on their ownlegs, and take rabbit-paths and short cuts whenever they liked.
There was one steep bit that forced them back on to the track. They went along it to where thetrack turned a sharp corner round a cliff-like bend - and to their surprise and dismay they walkedalmost straight into Lou and Tiger Dan!
'Take no notice,' said Julian, in a low voice. 'Keep together and walk straight on. Pretend thatTimmy is somewhere just behind us.'
'Tim, Tim!' called George, at once.
Lou and Dan seemed just as surprised to see the children, as they had been to see the two men.
They stopped and looked hard at them, but Julian hurried the others on.
'Hey, wait a minute!' called Dan. 'I thought you had gone off - over the hill-top!'
'Sorry we can't stop!' called back Julian. 'We're in rather a hurry!'
Lou looked round for Timmy. He wasn't going to lose his temper and start shouting in case thatmad dog came at him again. He spoke to the children loudly, forcing himself to appear good-tempered.
'Where are your caravans? Are you camping up here anywhere?'
But the children still walked on, and the men had to go after them to make them hear.
'Hey! What's the matter? We shan't hurt you! We only want to know if you're camping here. It'sbetter down below, you know.'
42
'Keep on walking,' muttered Julian. 'Don't tell them anything. Why do they tell us it's better tocamp down below when they were so anxious for us to clear out yesterday? They're mad!'
'Timmy, Timmy!' called George, again, hoping that the men would stop following them if theyheard her calling for her dog.
It did stop them. They gave up going after the children, and didn't shout any more. They turnedangrily and went on up the track.
'Well, we've thrown them off all right,' said Dick, with relief. 'Don't look so scared, Anne. Iwonder what they want up in the hills. They don't look the sort that would go walking forpleasure.'
'Dick - we're not going to have another adventure, are we?' said Anne suddenly, looking verywoebegone. 'I don't want one. I just want a nice ordinary, peaceful holiday.'
''Course we're not going to have an adventure!' said Dick, scornfully. 'Just because we meet twobad-tempered fellows from a circus camp you think we're in for an adventure, Anne! Well, I jollywell wish we were! Every hols we've been together so far we've had adventures - and you mustadmit that you love talking about them and remembering them.'
'Yes, I do. But I don't like it much when I'm in the middle of one,' said Anne. 'I don't think I'm avery adventurous person, really.'
'No, you're not,' said Julian, pulling Anne over a very steep bit. 'But you're a very nice littleperson, Anne, so don't worry about it. And, anyway, you wouldn't like to be left out of any of ouradventures, would you?'
'Oh no,' said Anne. 'I couldn't bear it. Oh, look - we're at the bottom of the hill - and there's thelake, looking icy-cold!'
It wasn't long before they were all in the water - and suddenly there was Nobby too, waving andyelling. 'I'm coming in! Lou and my uncle have gone off somewhere. Hurray!'
Barker and Growler were with Nobby, but not Pongo the chimpanzee. Nobby was soon in thewater, swimming like a dog, and splashing George as soon as he got up to her.
'We met Lou and your uncle as we came down,' called George. 'Shut up, Nobby, and let me talkto you. I said, we met Lou and your uncle just now - going up into the hills.'
'Up into the hills?' said Nobby, astonished. 'Whatever for? They don't go and fetch things fromthe farm. The women do that, early each morning.'
43
'Well, we met those two,' said Dick swimming up. They seemed jolly surprised to see us. I hopethey aren't going to bother us any more.'
'I've had a bad day,' said Nobby, and he showed black bruises on his arms. 'My uncle hit me likeanything for making friends with you. He says I'm not to go talking to strangers no more.'
'Why ever not?' said Dick. 'What a surly, selfish fellow he is! Well, you don't seem to be takingmuch notice of him now!'
''Course not!' said Nobby. 'He's safe up in the hills, isn't he? I'll have to be careful he doesn't seeme with you, that's all. Nobody else at the camp will split on me - they all hate Lou and TigerDan.'
'We saw you out in your boat with Pongo,' said Julian, swimming up to join in the conversation.
'We thought that if ever you wanted to signal to us you could easily do it by going out in yourboat, and waving a handkerchief or something. We've got field-glasses, and we can easily seeyou. We could come along down if you signalled. We'd know it would be safe.'
'Right,' said Nobby. 'Come on, let's have a race. Bet you I'm on the shore first!'
He wasn't, of course, because he didn't swim properly. Even Anne could race him. Soon theywere all drying themselves vigorously.
'Golly, I'm hungry!' said Julian. 'Come on up the hill with us, Nobby, and share our supper!'
9.


























































Chapter Ten A CURIOUS CHANGE OF MIND
Chapter Ten A CURIOUS CHANGE OF MIND
Nobby felt very much tempted to go and have a meal up in the hills with the children. But he wasafraid of meeting Lou and his uncle coming back from their walk.
'We can easily look out for them and warn you if we see or hear them,' said Dick, 'and you canflop under a bush and hide till they go past. You may be sure we'll be on the look-out for themourselves, because we don't want to meet them either!'
'Well, I'll come,' said Nobby. 'I'll take Barker and Growler too. They'll like to see Timmy.'
So all five of them, with the two dogs, set off up the hill. They climbed up short cuts at first, butthey were soon panting, and decided to take the track, which, although longer, was easier tofollow.
44
They all kept a sharp look-out for the two men, but they could see no sign of them. 'We shall beat our caravans soon,' said Julian. Then he heard Timmy barking in the distance. 'Hallo! What'sold Tim barking for? I wonder if those fellows have been up to our caravans?'
'Good thing we left Timmy on guard if so,' said Dick. 'We might have missed something if not.'
Then he went red, remembering that it was Nobby's uncle he had been talking of. Nobby mightfeel upset and offended to hear someone speaking as if he thought Tiger Dan would commit alittle robbery.
But Nobby wasn't at all offended. 'Don't you worry about what you say of my uncle,' he said,cheerfully. 'He's a bad lot. I know that. Anyway, he's not really my uncle, you know. When myfather and mother died, they left a little money for me - and it turned out that they had askedTiger Dan to look after me. So he took the money, called himself my uncle, and I've had to 'bewith him ever since.'
'Was he in the same circus, then?' asked Julian.
'Oh yes. He and my father were both clowns,' said Nobby. 'Always have been clowns, in myfamily. But wait till I'm old enough, and I'll do a bunk - clear off and join another circus, wherethey'll let me look after the horses. I'm mad on horses. But the fellow at our circus won't often letme go near them. Jealous because I can handle them, I suppose!'
The children gazed at Nobby in wonder. He seemed an extraordinary boy to them - one whowalked about with a tame chimpanzee, exercised hordes of performing dogs, lived with the chiefclown in the circus, could turn the most marvellous cart-wheels, and whose only ambition was towork with horses! What a boy! Dick half-envied him.
'Haven't you ever been to school?' he asked Nobby.
The boy shook his head. 'Never! I can't write. And I can only read a bit. Most circus folk are likethat, so nobody minds. Jumping Jiminy, I bet you're all clever, though! I bet even little Anne canread a book!'
'I've been able to read for years,' said Anne. 'And I'm up to fractions now in numbers.'
'Coo! What's fractions?' said Nobby, impressed.
'Well - quarters and halves and seven-eighths, and things like that,' said Anne. 'But I'd rather beable to turn a cart-wheel like you can, Nobby, than know how to do fractions.'
45
'Whatever is Timmy barking for?' said George as they came near the clump of birch trees. Thenshe stopped suddenly, for she had seen two figures lying down in the grass below the trees. Lou -and Tiger Dan!
It was too late for Nobby to hide. The men saw him at once. They got up and waited for thechildren to come near. George felt thankful that Timmy was within whistling distance. He wouldcome at the first call or whistle, she knew.
Julian looked at the men. To his surprise they appeared to be quite amiable. A faint scowl cameover Tiger Dan's face when he caught sight of Nobby, but it passed at once.
'Good evening,' said Julian curtly, and would have passed on without another word, but Loustepped up to him.
'We see you're camping up by here,' said Lou, and smiled showing yellow teeth. 'Ain't you goingover the hill?'
'I don't need to discuss my affairs with either you or your friend,' said Julian, sounding extremelygrown-up. 'You told us to clear out from down below, and we have. What we do now is nothingto do with you.'
'Ho yes, it is,' said Tiger Dan, sounding as if he was being polite with great difficulty. 'We comeup here tonight to plan a place for some of our animals, see? And we don't want you to be in nodanger.'
'We shan't be,' said Julian, scornfully. 'And there is plenty of room on these hills for you andyour animals and for us, too. You won't scare us off, so don't think it. We shall stay here as longas we want to - and if we want help there's the farmer and his men quite near by - to say nothingof our dog.'
'Did you leave that there dog on guard?' asked Lou, as he heard Timmy barking again. 'He oughtto be destroyed, that dog of yours. He's dangerous.'
'He's only dangerous to rogues and scamps,' said George, joining in at once. 'You keep awayfrom our caravans when Timmy's on guard. He'll maul you if you go near.'
Lou began to lose his temper. 'Well, are you going or ain't you?' he said. 'We've told you wewant this here bit of the hill. You can come down and camp by the lake again if you want to.'
'Yes - you come,' said Tiger Dan to the children's growing astonishment. 'You come, see? Youcan bathe in the lake every day, then - and Nobby here can show you round the camp, and youcan make friends with all the animals, see?'
46
Now it was Nobby's turn to look amazed.
'Jumping Jiminy! Didn't you beat me black and blue for making friends with these kids?' hedemanded. 'What's the game, now? You've never had animals up in the hills before. You've . . .'
'Shut up,' said Tiger Dan in such a fierce voice that all the children were shocked. Lou nudgedDan, and he made an effort to appear pleasant again.
'We didn't want Nobby to make friends with posh folk like you,' he began again. 'But it seems asif you want to pal up with him - so it's okay with us. You come on down and camp by the lake,and Nobby'll show you everything in the circus. Can't say fairer than that.'
'You've got other reasons for making all these suggestions,' said Julian, scornfully. 'I'm sorry -but our plans are made, and I am not going to discuss them with you.'
'Come on,' said Dick. 'Let's go and find Timmy. He's barking his head off because he can hearus, and it won't be long before he comes flying along here. Then we shall find it difficult to keephim off these two fellows.'
The four children began to move off. Nobby looked doubtfully at his uncle. He didn't knowwhether to go with them or not. Lou nudged Dan again.
'You go, too, if you want to,' said Tiger Dan, trying to grin amiably at the surprised Nobby.
'Keep your fine friends, see! Much good may they do you!' The grin vanished into a scowl, andNobby skipped smartly out of reach of his uncle's hand. He was puzzled and wondered what wasbehind his uncle's change of mind.
He tore after the children. Timmy came to meet them, barking his head off, waving the plumytail wildly in joy.
'Good dog, good dog!' said George, patting him. 'You keep on guard beautifully. You know Iwould have whistled for you if I'd wanted you, didn't you, Timmy? Good dog!'
'I'll get you some supper,' said Anne to everyone. 'We're all famishing. We can talk while we eat.
George, come and help. Julian, can you get some ginger-beer? And, Dick, do fill up the water-bowl for me.'
The boys winked at one another. They always thought that Anne was very funny when she tookcommand like this, and gave her orders. But everyone went obediently to work.
Nobby went to help Anne. Together they boiled ten eggs hard in the little saucepan. Then Annemade tomato sandwiches with potted meat and got out the cake the farmer's wife had given them.
She remembered the raspberry syrup, too - how lovely!
47
Soon they were all sitting on the rocky ledge, which was still warm, watching the sun go downinto the lake. It was a most beautiful evening, with the lake as blue as a cornflower and the skyflecked with rosy clouds. They held their hard-boiled eggs in one hand and a piece of bread andbutter in the other, munching happily. There was a dish of salt for everyone to dip their eggs into.
'I don't know why, but the meals we have on picnics always taste so much nicer than the ones wehave indoors,' said George. 'For instance, even if we had hard-boiled eggs and bread and butterindoors, they wouldn't taste as nice as these.'
'Can everyone eat two eggs?' asked Anne. 'I did two each. And there's plenty of cake - and moresandwiches and some plums we picked this morning.'
'Best meal I've ever had in my life,' said Nobby, and picked up his second egg. 'Best companyI've ever been in, too!'
Thank you,' said Anne, and everyone looked pleased. Nobby might not have their good manners,but he always seemed to say just the right thing.
'It's a good thing your uncle didn't make you go back with him and Lou,' said Dick. 'Funnybusiness - changing his mind like that!'
They began to talk about it. Julian was very puzzled indeed, and had even begun to wonder if hehadn't better find another camping site and go over the hill.
The others raised their voices scornfully.
'JULIAN! We're not cowards. We'll jolly well stay here!'
'What, leave now - why should we? We're in nobody's way, whatever those men say!'
'I'm not moving my caravan, whatever anyone says!' That was George, of course.
'No, don't you go,' said Nobby. 'Don't you take no notice of Lou and my uncle. They can't donothing to you at all. They're just trying to make trouble for you. You stay and let me show youover the camp, see?'
'It isn't that I want to give in to those fellows' ideas,' said Julian. 'It's just that - well, I'm in chargeof us all - and I don't like the look of Lou and Tiger Dan - and, well . . .'
'Oh, have another egg and forget about it,' said Dick. 'We're going to stay here in this hollow,however much Dan and Lou want us out of it. And, what's more, I'd like to find out why they'reso keen to push us off. It seems jolly queer to me.'
48
The sun went down in a blaze of orange and red, and the lake shimmered with its fiery reflection.
Nobby got up regretfully, and Barker and Growler, who had been hobnobbing with Timmy, gotup, too.
'I'll have to go,' said Nobby. 'Still got some jobs to do down there. What about you coming downtomorrow to see the animals? You'll like Old Lady, the elephant. She's a pet. And Pongo will bepleased to see you again.'
'Your uncle may have changed his mind again by tomorrow, and not want us near the camp,' saidDick.
'Well - I'll signal to you,' said Nobby. 'I'll go out in the boat, see? And wave a hanky. Then you'llknow it's all right. Well - so long! I'll be seeing you.'
10.































































Chapter Eleven FUN AT THE CIRCUS CAMP
Chapter Eleven FUN AT THE CIRCUS CAMP
Next morning, while Anne cleared up the breakfast things with George, and Dick went off to thefarm to buy whatever the farmer's wife had ready for him, Julian took the field-glasses and sat onthe ledge to watch for Nobby to go out on the lake in his boat.
Dick sauntered along, whistling. The farmer's wife was delighted to see him, and showed himtwo big baskets full of delicious food.
'Slices of ham I've cured myself,' she said, lifting up the white cloth that covered one of thebaskets. 'And a pot of brawn I've made. Keep it in a cool place. And some fresh lettuces andradishes I pulled myself this morning early. And some more tomatoes.'
'How gorgeous!' said Dick, eyeing the food in delight. 'Just the kind of things we love! Thanksawfully, Mrs Mackie. What's in the other basket?'
'Eggs, butter, milk, and a tin of shortbread I've baked,' said Mrs Mackie. 'You should do all righttill tomorrow, the four of you! And in that paper there is a bone for the dog.'
'How much do I owe you?' asked Dick. He paid his bill and took up the baskets. Mrs Mackieslipped a bag into his pocket.
'Just a few home-made sweets,' she said. That was her little present. Dick grinned at her.
49
'Well, I won't offer to pay you for them because I'm afraid of that rolling-pin of yours,' he said.
'But thank you very, very much.'
He went off delighted. He thought of Anne's pleasure when she came to unpack the baskets.
How she would love to put the things in the little larder - and pop the butter in a dish set in abowl of cold water - and set the eggs in the little rack!
When he got back Julian called to him: 'Nobby's out in his boat. Come and look. He's wavingsomething that can't possibly be a hanky. It must be the sheet off his bed!'
'Nobby doesn't sleep in sheets,' said Anne. 'He didn't know what they were when he saw them inour bunks. Perhaps it's a table-cloth.'
'Anyway, it's something big, to tell us that it's absolutely all right to come down to the camp,'
said Julian. 'Are we ready?'
'Not quite,' said Anne, unpacking the baskets Dick had brought. 'I must put away these things -and do you want to take a picnic lunch with you? Because if so I must prepare it. Oh - look at allthese gorgeous things!'
They all came back to look. 'Mrs Mackie is a darling,' said Anne. 'Honestly, these things aresuper - look at this gorgeous ham. It smells heavenly.'
'Here's her little present - homemade sweets,' said Dick, remembering them and taking them outof his pocket. 'Have one?'
Anne had everything ready in half an hour. They had decided to take a picnic lunch with themfor themselves and for Nobby as well. They took their bathing-things and towels, too.
'Are we going to take Timmy or not?' said George. 'I want to. But as these two men seem ratherinterested in our caravans, perhaps we had better leave him on guard again. We don't want tocome back and find the caravans damaged or half the things stolen.'
'I should think not!' said Dick. 'They're not our things, nor our caravans. They belong tosomebody else and we've got to take extra good care of them. I think we ought to leave Timmyon guard, don't you, Ju?'
'Yes, I do,' said Julian at once. 'These caravans are too valuable to leave at the mercy of anypassing tramp - though I suppose we could lock them up. Anyway - we'll leave Timmy on guardtoday - poor old Timmy, it's a shame, isn't it?'
Timmy didn't answer. He looked gloomy and miserable. What! They were all going off withouthim again? He knew what 'on guard' meant - he was to stay here with these houses on wheels till50
the children chose to come back. He badly wanted to see Pongo again. He stood with his ears andtail drooping, the picture of misery.
But there was no help for it. The children felt that they couldn't leave the caravans unguardedwhile they were still so uncertain about Lou and Tiger Dan. So they all patted poor Timmy andfondled him, and then said good-bye. He sat down on the rocky ledge with his back to them andwouldn't even watch them go.
'He's sulking,' said George. 'Poor Timothy!'
It didn't take them very long to get down to the camp, and they found Nobby, Pongo, Barker andGrowler waiting for them. Nobby was grinning from ear to ear.
'You saw my signal all right?' he said. 'Uncle hasn't changed his mind - in fact, he seems quite tohave taken to you, and says I'm to show you all round and let you see anything you want to. Thatwas his shirt I waved. I thought if I waved something enormous you'd know things wereabsolutely safe.'
'Where shall we put the bathing-things and the picnic baskets while we see round the camp?'
asked Anne. 'Somewhere cool, if possible.'
'Put them in my caravan,' said Nobby, and led them to a caravan painted blue and yellow, withred wheels. The children remembered having seen it when the procession passed by their house aweek or two before.
They peeped inside. It wasn't nearly so nice as theirs. It was much smaller, for one thing, andvery untidy. It looked dirty, too, and had a nasty smell. Anne didn't like it very much.
'Not so good as yours!' said Nobby. 'I wish I had a caravan like yours. I'd feel like a prince. Nowwhat do you want to see first? The elephant? Come on, then.'
They went to the tree to which Old Lady the elephant was tied. She curled her trunk roundNobby and looked at the children out of small, intelligent eyes.
'Well, Old Lady!' said Nobby. 'Want a bathe?'
The elephant trumpeted and made the children jump. 'I'll take you later on,' promised Nobby.
'Now then - hup, hup, hup!'
At these words the elephant curled her trunk tightly round Nobby's waist and lifted him bodilyinto the air, placing him gently on her big head!
Anne gasped.
'Oh! Did she hurt you, Nobby?'
51
''Course not!' said Nobby. 'Old Lady wouldn't hurt anyone, would you, big one?'
A small man came up. He had bright eyes that shone as if they had been polished, and a verywide grin. 'Good morning,' he said. 'How do you like my Old Lady? Like to see her play cricket?'
'Oh, yes!' said everyone, and the small man produced a cricket bat and held it out to Old Lady.
She took it in her trunk and waved it about. Nobby slipped deftly off her head to the ground.
'I'll play with her, Larry,' he said, and took the ball from the small man. He threw it to Old Ladyand she hit it smartly with the bat. It sailed over their heads!
Julian fetched the ball. He threw it at the elephant, and again the great creature hit the ball with abang. Soon all the children were playing with Old Lady and enjoying the game very much.
Some small camp children came up to watch. But they were as scared as rabbits as soon as Julianor George spoke to them and scuttled off to their caravans at once. They were dirty and ragged,but most of them had beautiful eyes and thick curly hair, though it wanted brushing and washing.
Nobby went to fetch Pongo, who was dancing to and fro in his cage, making anguished sounds,thinking he was forgotten. He was simply delighted to see the children again, and put his armright round Anne at once. Then he pulled George's hair and hid his face behind his paws, peepingout mischievously.
'He's a caution, aren't you, Pongo?' said Nobby. 'Now you keep with me, Pongo, or I'll put youback into your cage, see?'
They went to see the dogs and let them all out. They were mostly terrier dogs, or mongrels,smart, well-kept little things who jumped up eagerly at Nobby, and made a great fuss of him. Itwas clear that they loved him and trusted him.
'Like to see them play football?' asked Nobby. 'Here, Barker - fetch the ball. Go on, quick!'
Barker darted off to Nobby's caravan. The door was shut, but the clever little dog stood on hishind legs and jerked the handle with his nose. The door opened and in went Barker. He came outdribbling a football with his nose. Down the steps it went and into the camp field. All the dogsleapt on it with howls of delight.
'Yap-yap-yap! Yap-yap!' They dribbled that football to and fro, while Nobby stood with his legsopen to make a goal for them.
It was Barker's job and Growler's to score the goals, and the task of the other dogs to stop them.
So it was a most amusing game to watch. Once, when Barker scored a goal by hurling himself on52
the ball and sending it rolling fast between Nobby's arched legs, Pongo leapt into the fray, pickedup the ball and ran off with it.
'Foul, foul!' yelled Nobby and all the dogs rushed after the mischievous chimpanzee. He leapt onto the top of a caravan and began to bounce the ball there, grinning down at the furious dogs.
'Oh, this is such fun!' said Anne, wiping the tears of laughter from her eyes. 'Oh, dear! I've gotsuch a pain in my side from laughing.'
Nobby had to climb up to the roof of the caravan to get the ball. Pongo jumped down the otherside, but left the ball balanced neatly on the chimney. He was really a most mischievouschimpanzee.
Then they went to see the beautiful horses. All of them had shining satiny coats. They werebeing trotted round a big field by a slim, tall young fellow called Rossy, and they obeyed hisslightest word.
'Can I ride Black Queen, Rossy?' asked Nobby eagerly. 'Do let me!'
'Okay,' said Rossy, his black hair shining like the horses' coats. Then Nobby amazed thewatching children, for he leapt on to a great black horse, stood up on her back and trotted allround the field like that!
'He'll fall!' cried Anne. But he didn't, of course. Then he suddenly swung himself down on to hishands and rode Black Queen standing upside down.
'Good, good!' cried Rossy. 'You are good with horses, young one! Now ride Fury!'
Fury was a small, fiery-looking little horse, whose gleaming eyes showed a temper. Nobby ran toher and leapt on her bare-backed. She rose up, snorting and tried to throw him off. But hewouldn't be thrown off. No matter what she did, Nobby clung on like a limpet to a rock.
At last Fury tired of it and began to canter round the field. Then she galloped - and suddenly shestopped absolutely dead, meaning to fling Nobby over her head!
But the boy was waiting for that trick and threw himself backwards at once. 'Good, good!' criedRossy. 'She will soon eat out of your hand, Nobby! Good boy.'
'Nobby, Nobby, you're terribly clever!' yelled Anne. 'Oh, I wish I could do the things you do! Iwish I could.'
Nobby slid off Fury's back, looking pleased. It was nice to show off a little to his 'posh' friends.
Then he looked round and about. 'I say - where's that chimp? Up to some mischief, I'll be bound!
Let's go and find him.'
11.







































































Chapter Twelve A LOVELY DAY - WITH A HORRID END
Chapter Twelve A LOVELY DAY - WITH A HORRID END
They soon saw Pongo. He was coming round one of the caravans, looking exceedingly pleasedwith himself. He went to Anne and held out his paw to her, making little affectionate noises.
Anne took what he held. She looked at it. It's a hard-boiled egg! Oh, Nobby, he's been at thepicnic baskets!'
So he had! Two of the eggs were gone, and some of the tomatoes! Nobby smacked thechimpanzee and took him back to his cage. He was very sad and made a noise as if he wascrying, hiding his face in his paws. Anne was upset.
'Is he really crying? Oh, do forgive him, Nobby. He didn't mean to be naughty.'
'He's not crying. He's only pretending,' said Nobby. 'And he did mean to be naughty. I knowhim!'
The morning soon went in visiting the circus animals. It was dinner-time before they had hadtime to see the monkeys. 'We'll see them afterwards,' said Nobby. 'Let's have a meal now. Comeon. We'll go and have it by the lake.'
The children hadn't seen Lou or Tiger Dan at all, much to their joy. 'Where are they?' askedJulian. 'Gone out for the day?'
'Yes, thank goodness,' said Nobby. 'Gone out on one of their mysterious jaunts. You know, whenwe're on the road, going from place to place, my uncle sometimes disappears at night. I wake up- and he's not there.'
'Where does he go?' asked George.
'I wouldn't dare to ask,' said Nobby. 'Anyway, he and Lou are out of the way today. I don't expectthey'll be back till night.'
They had their meal by the lake. It glittered at their feet, calm and blue, and looked very inviting.
'What about a swim?' asked Dick when they had eaten as much as they could. Julian looked athis watch.
'Can't swim directly after a good meal,' he said. 'You know that, Dick. We'll have to wait a bit.'
'Right,' said Dick, and lay down. 'I'll have a snooze - or shall we go and see the monkeys?'
They all had a short nap and then got up to go and see the monkeys. When they got back to thecamp they found it alive with people, all excited and yelling.
54
'What's up?' said Nobby. 'Jumping Jiminy, the monkeys are all loose!'
So they were. Wherever they looked the children saw a small brown monkey, chattering to itself,on the roof of a caravan or tent!
A brown-faced woman with sharp eyes came up to Nobby. She caught him by the shoulder andshook him. 'See what that chimp of yours has done!' she said. 'You put him in his cage andcouldn't have locked it properly. He got out and let all the monkeys loose. Drat that chimp - I'lltake a broomstick to him if ever I catch him!'
'Where's Lucilla then?' asked Nobby, dragging himself away from the cross woman. 'Can't sheget them in?'
'Lucilla's gone to the town,' scolded the woman. 'And fine and pleased she'll be to hear this whenshe comes back!'
'Aw, let the monkeys be!' said Nobby. 'They won't come to any harm. They'll wait for Lucilla allright!'
'Who's Lucilla?' asked Anne, thinking that life in a circus camp was very exciting.
'She owns the monkeys,' said Nobby. 'Hi, look - there's Lucilla coming back! Now we'll be allright!'
A little wizened old woman was hurrying towards the camp. She really looked rather like amonkey herself, Anne thought. Her eyes were bright and sharp, and her tiny hands clutched a redshawl round her. They looked like brown paws.
'Your monkeys are out!' yelled the camp children. 'LUCILLA! Your monkeys are out.'
Lucilla heard and, raising her voice, she scolded everyone in sight fully and shrilly. Then shestood still and held out her arms. She spoke some soft words in a language the children didn'tknow - magic words, Anne said afterwards.
One by one the wandering monkeys came scampering over to her, flinging themselves downfrom the caravan roofs, making little chattering sounds of love and welcome. They leapt on toLucilla's shoulders and into her arms, cuddling against her like tiny brown children. Not onemonkey was left out - all went to Lucilla as if drawn by some enchantment.
She walked slowly towards their cage, murmuring her soft words as she went. Everyone watchedin silence.
55
'She's a queer one,' said the brown-faced woman to Nobby. 'She don't love nobody but hermonkeys - and there's nobody loves her but them. You mind out she doesn't go for that chimp ofyours, letting out her precious monkeys!'
'I'll take him and Old Lady down to bathe,' said Nobby, hastily. 'By the time we're back, Lucillawill have forgotten.'
They fetched Old Lady and discovered where naughty Pongo was hiding under a caravan. Asquickly as possible they went back to the lake, Old Lady stepping out well, looking forward toher bathe.
'I suppose things like that are always happening in a circus camp,' said Anne. 'It's not a bit likereal life.'
'Isn't it?' said Nobby, surprised. 'It's real life all right to me!'
It was cool in the lake and they all enjoyed themselves very much, swimming and splashing.
Pongo wouldn't go in very far, but splashed everyone who came within reach, laughing andcackling loudly. He gave Old Lady a shock by leaping up on to her back, and pulling one of herbig ears.
She dipped her trunk into the lake, sucked up a lot of water, turned her trunk over her back, andsquirted the water all over the startled chimpanzee! The children yelled with laughter, and roaredagain to see Pongo falling in fright off Old Lady's back. Splash! He went right in and got himselfwet from head to foot - a thing he hated doing.
'Serves you right, you scamp!' shouted Nobby. 'Hey, Old Lady, stop it! Don't squirt at me!'
The elephant, pleased with her little joke, didn't want to stop it. So the children had to keep wellaway from her, for her aim was very good.
'I've never had such a lovely time in my life!' said Anne, as she dried herself. 'I shall dream allnight of monkeys and elephants, horses, dogs and chimpanzees!'
Nobby turned about twenty cart-wheels by the edge of the lake from sheer good spirits - andPongo at once did the same. He was even better at it than Nobby. Anne tried and fell down flopimmediately.
They went back to the camp. 'Sorry I can't offer you any tea,' said Nobby, 'but we never seem tohave tea, you know - we circus folk, I mean. Anyway, I'm not hungry after that enormous lunch.
Are you?'
56
Nobody was. They shared out Mrs Mackie's home-made toffees, and gave one to Pongo. It stuckhis teeth together, and he looked so comically alarmed when he found that he couldn't open hismouth that the children roared at him.
He sat down, swayed from side to side, and began to groan dismally. But the toffee soon meltedaway, and he found that he could open his mouth after all. He sucked the rest of the sweetnoisily, but wouldn't have another.
They wandered round the camp, looking at the different caravans. Nobody took much notice ofthem now. They were just Nobby's 'posh' friends - that was all. Some of the smaller childrenpeeped out and stuck out their little red tongues - but at Nobby's roar they vanished.
'Got no manners at all!' said Nobby. 'But they're all right really.'
They came to where big wagons stood, stored with all kinds of circus things. 'We don't bother tounpack these when we're resting in camp like this,' said Nobby. 'Don't need them here. One ofmy jobs is to help to unpack this stuff when we're camping to give a show. Have to get out allthem benches and set them up in the big top - that's the circus tent, you know. We're pretty busythen, I can tell you!'
'What's in this cart?' asked Anne, coming to a small wagon with a tightly-fitting hood oftarpaulin.
'Don't know,' said Nobby. That cart belongs to my uncle. He won't never let me unpack it. I don'tknow what he keeps there. I've wondered if it was things belonging to my Dad and Mum. I toldyou they were dead. Anyway, I thought I'd peep and see one day; but Uncle Dan caught me andhalf-killed me!'
'But if they belonged to your parents, they ought to be yours!' said George.
'Funny thing is, sometimes that cart's crammed full,' said Nobby. 'And sometimes it isn't. MaybeLou puts some of his things there too.'
'Well, nobody could get anything else in there at the moment!' said Julian. 'It's full to bursting!'
They lost interest in the little wagon and wandered round to see the 'props' as Nobby called them.
Anne pictured these as clothes-props, but they turned out to be gilt chairs and tables, the shiningpoles used for the tight-rope, gaily-painted stools for the performing dogs to sit on, and circus'props' of that kind.
'Properties, Anne,' said Julian. 'Circus properties. Props for short. Look here, isn't it about timewe went back? My watch has stopped. Whatever time is it?'
57
'Golly, it's quite late!' said Dick, looking at his watch. 'Seven o'clock. No wonder I feel jollyhungry. Time we went back. Coming with us, Nobby? You can have supper up there if you like.
I bet you could find your way back in the dark.'
'I'll take Pongo with me, and Barker and Growler,' said Nobby, delighted at the invitation. 'If Ilose the way back, they won't!'
So they all set off up the hill, tired with their long and exciting day. Anne began to plan what shewould give the little company for supper. Ham, certainly - and tomatoes - and some of thatraspberry syrup diluted with icy-cold spring-water.
They all heard Timmy barking excitedly as soon as they came near the caravans. He barkedwithout ceasing, loudly and determinedly.
'He sounds cross,' said Dick. 'Poor old Tim! He must think we've quite deserted him.'
They came to the caravans and Timmy flung himself on George as if he hadn't seen her for ayear. He pawed her and licked her, then pawed her again.
Barker and Growler were pleased to see him too, and as for Pongo, he was delighted. He shookhands with Timmy's tail several times, and was disappointed that Timmy took no notice of him.
'Hallo! What's Barker gnawing at?' suddenly said Dick. 'Raw meat! How did it come here? Doyou suppose the farmer has been by and given Timmy some? Well, why didn't he eat it, then?'
They all looked at Barker, who was gnawing some meat on the ground. Growler ran to it too. ButTimmy would not go near it. Nor would Pongo. Timmy put his tail down and Pongo hid his furryface behind his paws.
'Funny,' said the children, puzzled at the queer behaviour of the two animals. Then suddenly theyunderstood - for poor Barker suddenly gave a terrible whine, shivered from head to foot, androlled over on his side.
'Jiminy - it's poisoned!' yelled Nobby, and kicked Growler away from the meat. He pickedBarker up, and to the children's utter dismay they saw that Nobby was crying.
'He's done for,' said the boy, in a choking voice. 'Poor old Barker.'
Carrying Barker in his arms, with Growler and Pongo behind him, poor Nobby stumbled downthe hill. No one liked to follow him. Poisoned meat! What a terrible thing.
12.












































20





























Chapter Thirteen JULIAN THINKS OF A PLAN
Chapter Thirteen JULIAN THINKS OF A PLAN
George was trembling. Her legs felt as if they wouldn't hold her up, and she sank down on theledge. She put her arms round Timmy.
'Oh, Timmy! That meat was meant for you! Oh, thank goodness, thank goodness you were cleverenough not to touch it! Timmy, you might have been poisoned!'
Timmy licked his mistress soberly. The others stood round, staring, not knowing what to think.
Poor Barker! Would he die? Suppose it had been old Timmy? They had left him all alone, and hemight have eaten the meat and died.
'I'll never, never leave you up here alone again!' said George.
'Who threw him the poisoned meat, do you think?' said Anne, in a small voice.
'Who do you suppose?' said George, in a hard, scornful voice. 'Lou and Tiger Dan!'
'They want to get us away from here, that's plain,' said Dick. 'But again - why?'
'What can there be about this place that makes the men want to get rid of us all?' wonderedJulian. 'They're real rogues. Poor Nobby. He must have an awful life with them. And now they'vegone and poisoned his dog.'
Nobody felt like eating very much that evening. Anne got out the bread and the butter and a potof jam. George wouldn't eat anything. What a horrid end to a lovely day!
They all went to bed early, and nobody objected when Julian said he was going to lock both thecaravans. 'Not that I think either Lou or Dan will be up here tonight,' he said. 'But you neverknow!'
Whether they came or not the children didn't know, for although Timmy began to bark loudly inthe middle of the night, and scraped frantically at the shut door of George's caravan, there wasnothing to be seen or heard when Julian opened his door and flashed on his torch.
Timmy didn't bark any more. He lay quite quietly sleeping with one ear cocked. Julian lay in bedand thought hard. Probably Lou and Dan had come creeping up in the dark, hoping that Timmyhad taken the meat and been poisoned. But when they heard him bark, they knew he was allright, and they must have gone away again. What plan would they make next?
'There's something behind all this,' Julian thought, again and again. 'But what can it be? Why dothey want us out of this particular spot?'
59
He couldn't imagine. He fell asleep at last with a vague plan in his mind. He would tell it to theothers tomorrow. Perhaps if he could make Lou and Dan think they had all gone off for the day -with Timmy - but really, he, Julian, would be left behind, in hiding - maybe he could find outsomething, if Lou and Dan came along . . .
Julian fell asleep in the middle of thinking out his plan. Like the others, he dreamt of elephantssquirting him with water, of Pongo chasing the monkeys, of the dogs playing football withexcited yaps - and then into the dream came lumps of poisoned meat! Horrid.
Anne woke with a jump, having dreamt that someone had put poison into the hard-boiled eggsthey were going to eat. She lay trembling in her bunk, and called to George in a small voice.
'George! I've been having an awful dream!'
George woke up, and Timmy stirred and stretched himself. George switched on her torch.
'I've been having beastly dreams, too,' she said. 'I dreamt that those men were after Timmy. I'llleave my torch on for a bit and we'll talk. I expect that with all the excitement we've had today,and the horrid end to it this evening, we're just in the mood for horrid dreams! Still - they areonly dreams.'
'Woof,' said Timmy, and scratched himself.
'Don't,' said George. 'You shake the whole caravan when you do that, Timmy. Stop it.'
Timmy stopped. He sighed and lay down heavily. He put his head on his paws and lookedsleepily at George, as if to say, 'Put that torch out. I want to go to sleep.'
The next morning was not so warm, and the sky was cloudy. Nobody felt very cheerful, becausethey kept thinking of Nobby and poor Barker. They ate their breakfast almost in silence, and thenAnne and George began to stack the plates, ready to take them to the spring to rinse.
'I'll go to the farm this morning,' said Julian. 'You sit on the ledge and take the field-glasses,Dick. We'll see if Nobby goes out in his boat and waves. I've an idea that he won't want us downin the camp this morning. If he suspects his Uncle Dan and Lou of putting down the meat thatpoisoned Barker, he'll probably have had a frightful row with them.'
He went off to the farm with two empty baskets. Mrs Mackie was ready for him, and he bought afurther supply of delicious-looking food. Her present this time was a round ginger cake, warmfrom the oven!
'Do the circus folk come up here often to buy food?' asked Julian, as he paid Mrs Mackie.
60
'They come sometimes,' said Mrs Mackie. 'I don't mind the women or the children - dirty thoughthey are, and not above taking one of my chickens now and again - but it's the men I can't abide.
There were two here last year, messing about in the hills, that my husband had to send off quick.'
Julian pricked up his ears. Two men? What were they like?'
'Ugly fellows,' said Mrs Mackie. 'And one had the yellowest teeth I ever saw. Bad-temperedchaps, both of them. They came up here at night, and we were afraid our chickens would go.
They swore they weren't after our chickens - but what else would they be up here at night for?'
'I can't imagine,' said Julian. He was sure that the two men Mrs Mackie spoke of were Lou andTiger Dan. Why did they wander about in the hills at night?
He went off with the food. When he got near the camping-place, Dick called to him excitedly.
'Hey, Julian! Come and look through the glasses. Nobby's out in his boat with Pongo, and Isimply can't make out what it is they're both waving.'
Julian took the glasses and looked through them. Far down the hill, on the surface of the lake,floated Nobby's little boat. In it was Nobby, and with him was Pongo. Both of them were wavingsomething bright red.
'Can't see what they're waving - but that doesn't matter,' said Julian. The thing is - what they'rewaving is red, not white. Red for danger. He's warning us.'
'Golly - I didn't think of that. What an idiot I am!' said Dick. 'Yes - red for danger. What's up, Iwonder?'
'Well, it's clear we'd better not go down to the camp today,' said Julian. 'And it's also clear thatwhatever danger there is, is pretty bad - because both he and Pongo are waving red cloths -doubly dangerous!'
'Julian, you're jolly sharp,' said George, who was listening. 'You're the only one of us whotumbled to all that. Double-danger. What can it be?'
'Perhaps it means danger down at the camp, and danger here too,' said Julian, thoughtfully. 'Ihope poor old Nobby is all right. Tiger Dan is so jolly beastly to him. I bet he's had a beating ortwo since last night.'
'It's a shame!' said Dick.
'Don't tell Anne we think there is double-danger about,' said Julian, seeing Anne coming backfrom the spring. 'She'll be scared. She was hoping we wouldn't have an adventure these hols -61
and now we seem to be plunged into the middle of one. Golly, I really think we ought to leavethese hills and go on somewhere else.'
But he only said this half-heartedly, because he was burning to solve the curious mystery behindLou's behaviour and Dan's. The others pounced on him at once.
'We can't leave! Don't be a coward, Ju!'
'I won't leave. Nor will Timmy.'
'Shut up,' said Julian. 'Here comes Anne.'
They said no more. Julian watched Nobby for a little while longer. Then the boy and thechimpanzee drew in to the shore and disappeared.
When they were all sitting together on the ledge, Julian proposed the plan he had been thinkingout the night before.
'I'd like to find out what there is about this place that attracts Lou and Dan,' he said. There issomething not far from here that makes the men want to get rid of us. Now suppose we four andTimmy go off down the hill and pass the camp, and yell out to Nobby that we're all - all of us -going to the town for the day - and you three do go, but I slip back up the hill - maybe Lou andDan will come up here, and if I'm in hiding I shall see what they're up to!'
'You mean, we'll all four pretend to go to town - but really only three of us go, and you get backand hide,' said Dick. 'I see. It's a good idea.'
'And you'll hide somewhere and watch for the men to come,' said George. 'Well, for goodness'
sake don't let them see you, Julian. You won't have Timmy, you know! Those men could makemincemeat of you if they wanted to.'
'Oh, they'd want to all right. I know that,' said Julian grimly. 'But you can be sure I'll be jollywell hidden.'
'I don't see why we can't have a good look round and see if we can't find the cave or whatever itis the men want to come to,' said Dick. 'If they can find it, we can, too!'
'We don't know that it is a cave,' said Julian. 'We haven't any idea at all what attracts the men uphere. Mrs Mackie said they were up here last year, too, and the farmer had to drive them away.
They thought the men were after the chickens - but I don't think so. There's something in thesehills that makes the men want to get us away.'
'Let's have a good look round,' said George, feeling suddenly thrilled. 'I've gone all adventurousagain!'
62
'Oh dear!' said Anne. But she couldn't help feeling rather thrilled, too. They all got up andTimmy followed, wagging his tail. He was pleased that his friends hadn't gone off and left himon guard by himself that morning.
'We'll all go different ways,' said Julian. 'Up, down and sideways. I'll go up.'
They separated and went off, George and Timmy together, of course. They hunted in the hillsidefor possible caves, or even for some kind of hiding-place. Timmy put his head down everyrabbit-hole and felt very busy indeed.
After about half an hour the others heard Julian yelling. They ran back to the caravans, sure thathe had found something exciting.
But he hadn't. He had simply got tired of hunting and decided to give it up. He shook his headwhen they rushed up to him, shouting to know what he had found.
'Nothing,' he said. 'I'm fed up with looking. There's not a cave anywhere here. I'm sure of that!
Anyone else found anything?'
'Not a thing,' said everyone in disappointment. 'What shall we do now?'
'Put our plan into action,' said Julian, promptly. 'Let the men themselves show us what they'reafter. Off we go down the hills, and we'll yell out to Nobby that we're off for the day - and we'llhope that Lou and Tiger Dan will hear us!'
13.





























































Chapter Fourteen A VERY GOOD HIDING-PLACE
Chapter Fourteen A VERY GOOD HIDING-PLACE
They went down the hill with Timmy. Julian gave Dick some instructions. 'Have a meal in thetown,' he said. 'Keep away for the day, so as to give the men a chance to come up the hill. Go tothe post office and see if there are any letters for us - and buy some tins of fruit. They'll make anice change.'
'Right, Captain!' said Dick. 'And just you be careful, old boy. These men will stick at nothing -bad-tempered brutes they are.'
'Look after the girls,' said Julian. 'Don't let George do anything mad!'
Dick grinned. 'Who can stop George doing what she wants to? Not me!'
63
They were now at the bottom of the hill. The circus camp lay nearby. The children could hear thebarking of the dogs and the shrill trumpeting of Old Lady.
They looked about for Nobby. He was nowhere to be seen. Blow! It wouldn't be any good settingoff to the town and laying such a good plan if they couldn't tell Nobby they were going!
Nobody dared to go into the camp. Julian thought of the two red cloths that Nobby and Pongohad waved. Double-danger! It would be wise not to go into the camp that morning. He stood still,undecided what to do.
Then he opened his mouth and yelled: 'Nobby! NOBBY!'
No answer and no Nobby. The elephant man heard him shouting and came up. 'Do you wantNobby? I'll fetch him.'
Thanks,' said Julian.
The little man went off, whistling. Soon Nobby appeared from behind a caravan, looking ratherscared. He didn't come near Julian, but stood a good way away, looking pale and troubled.
'Nobby! We're going into the town for the day,' yelled Julian at the top of his voice. 'We're . . .'
Tiger Dan suddenly appeared behind Nobby and grabbed his arm fiercely. Nobby put up a handto protect his face, as if he expected a blow. Julian yelled again:
'We're going into the town, Nobby! We shan't be back till evening. Can you hear me? WE'REGOING TO THE TOWN!'
The whole camp must have heard Julian. But he was quite determined that, whoever else didn'thear, Tiger Dan certainly should.
Nobby tried to shake off his uncle's hand, and opened his mouth to yell back something. But Danroughly put his hand across Nobby's mouth and hauled him away, shaking him as a dog shakes arat.
'HOW'S BARKER?' yelled Julian. But Nobby had disappeared, dragged into his uncle's caravanby Dan. The little elephant man heard, however.
'Barker's bad,' he said. 'Not dead yet. But nearly. Never saw a dog so sick in my life. Nobby's fairupset!'
The children walked off with Timmy. George had had to hold his collar all the time, for once hesaw Dan he growled without stopping, and tried to get away from George.
Thank goodness Barker isn't dead,' said Anne. 'I do hope he'll get better.'
64
'Not much chance,' said Julian. 'That meat must have been chockful of poison. Poor old Nobby.
How awful to be under the thumb of a fellow like Tiger Dan.'
'I just simply can't imagine him as a clown - Tiger Dan, I mean,' said Anne. 'Clowns are alwaysso merry and gay and jolly.'
'Well, that's just acting,' said Dick. 'A clown needn't be the same out of the ring as he has to bewhen he's in it. If you look at photographs of clowns when they're just being ordinary men,they've got quite sad faces.'
'Well, Tiger Dan hasn't got a sad face. He's got a nasty, ugly, savage, cruel, fierce one,' saidAnne, looking quite fierce herself.
That made the others laugh. Dick turned round to see if anyone was watching them walkingtowards the bus-stop, where the buses turned to go to the town.
'Lou the acrobat is watching us,' he said. 'Good! Can he see the bus-stop from where he is, Ju?'
Julian turned round. 'Yes, he can. He'll watch to see us all get into the bus - so I'd better climb in,too, and I'll get out at the first stop, double back, and get into the hills by some path he won't beable to see.'
'Right,' said Dick, enjoying the thought of playing a trick on Lou. 'Come on. There's the bus.
We'll have to run for it.'
They all got into the bus. Lou was still watching, a small figure very far away. Dick felt inclinedto wave cheekily to him, but didn't.
The bus set off. They took three tickets for the town and one for the nearest stop. Timmy had aticket, too, which he wore proudly in his collar. He loved going in a bus.
Julian got out at the first stop. 'Well, see you this evening!' he said. 'Send Timmy on ahead to thecaravans when you come back - just in case the men are anywhere about. I may not be able towarn you.'
'Right,' said Dick. 'Good-bye - and good luck!'
Julian waved and set off back down the road he had come. He saw a little lane leading off up intothe hills and decided to take it. It led him not very far from Mrs Mackie's farm, so he soon knewwhere he was. He went back to the caravans, and quickly made himself some sandwiches and cutsome cake to take to his hiding-place. He might have a long wait!
65
'Now - where shall I hide?' thought the boy. 'I want somewhere that will give me a view of thetrack so that I can see when the men come up it. And yet it must be somewhere that gives me agood view of their doings, too. What would be the best place?'
A tree? No, there wasn't one that was near enough or thick enough. Behind a bush? No, the menmight easily come round it and see him. What about the middle of a thick gorse bush? Thatmight be a good idea.
But Julian gave that up very quickly, for he found the bush far too prickly to force his way intothe middle. He scratched his arms and legs terribly.
'Blow!' he said. 'I really must make up my mind, or the men may be here before I'm in hiding!'
And then he suddenly had a real brainwave, and he crowed in delight. Of course! The very place!
'I'll climb up on to the roof of one of the caravans!' thought Julian. 'Nobody will see me there -and certainly nobody would guess I was there! That really is a fine idea. I shall have a fine viewof the track and a first-rate view of the men and where they go!'
It wasn't very easy to climb up on to the high roof. He had to get a rope, loop it at the end, andtry to lasso the chimney in order to climb up.
He managed to lasso the chimney, and the rope hung down over the side of the caravan, readyfor him to swarm up. He threw his packet of food up on to the roof and then climbed up himself.
He pulled up the rope and coiled it beside him.
Then he lay down flat. He was certain that nobody could see him from below. Of course, if themen went higher up the hill and looked down on the caravans, he could easily be spotted - but hewould have to chance that.
He lay there quite still, watching the lake, and keeping eyes and ears open for anyone coming upthe hillside. He was glad that it was not a very hot sunny day, or he would have been cooked upon the roof. He wished he had thought of filling a bottle with water in case he was thirsty.
He saw spires of smoke rising from where the circus camp lay, far below. He saw a couple ofboats on the lake, a good way round the water - people fishing, he supposed. He watched acouple of rabbits come out and play on the hillside just below.
The sun came out from behind the clouds for about ten minutes and Julian began to feeluncomfortably hot. Then it went in again and he felt better.
66
He suddenly heard somebody whistling and stiffened himself in expectation - but it was onlysomeone belonging to the farm, going down the hill some distance away. The whistle had carriedclearly in the still air.
Then he got bored. The rabbits went in, and not even a butterfly sailed by. He could see no birdsexcept a yellow-hammer that sat on the topmost spray of a bush and sang: ' Little-bit-of-bread-and-no-cheese', over and over again in a most maddening manner.
Then it gave a cry of alarm and flew off. It had heard something that frightened it.
Julian heard something, too, and glued his eyes to the track that led up the hill. His heart began tobeat. He could see two men. Were they Lou and Dan?
He did not dare to raise his head to see them when they came nearer in case they spotted him.
But he knew their voices when they came near enough!
Yes - it was Lou and Tiger Dan all right. There was no mistaking those two harsh, coarse voices.
The men came right into the hollow, and Julian heard them talking.
'Yes, there's nobody here. Those kids have really gone off for the day at least - and taken thatwretched dog with them!'
'I saw them get on the bus, dog and all, I told you,' growled Lou. 'There'll be nobody here for theday. We can get what we want to.'
'Let's go and get it, then,' said Dan.
Julian waited to see where they would go to. But they didn't go out of the hollow. They stayedthere, apparently beside the caravans. Julian did not dare to look over the edge of the roof to seewhat they were up to. He was glad he had fastened all the windows and locked the doors.
Then there began some curious scuffling sounds, and the men panted. The caravan on whichJulian was lying began to shake a little.
'What are they doing?' thought Julian in bewilderment. In intense curiosity he slid quietly to theedge of the caravan roof and cautiously peeped over, though he had firmly made up his mind notto do this on any account.
He looked down on the ground. There was nobody there at all. Perhaps the men were the otherside. He slid carefully across and peeped over the opposite side of the caravan, which was stillshaking a little, as if the men were bumping against it.
67
There was nobody the other side either! How very extraordinary! 'Golly! They must beunderneath the caravan!' thought Julian, going back to the middle of the roof. 'Underneath! Whatin the wide world for?'
It was quite impossible to see underneath the caravan from where he was, so he had to lie quietlyand wonder about the men's doings. They grunted and groaned, and seemed to be scraping andscrabbling about, but nothing happened. Then Julian heard them scrambling out fromunderneath, angry and disappointed.
'Give us a cigarette,' said Lou in a disagreeable voice. 'I'm fed up with this. Have to shift this van.
Those tiresome brats! What did they want to choose this spot for?'
Julian heard a match struck and smelt cigarette smoke. Then he got a shock. The caravan he wason began to move! Heavens! Were the men going to push it over the ledge and send it rollingdown the hillside?
14.





























































Chapter Fifteen SEVERAL THINGS HAPPEN
Chapter Fifteen SEVERAL THINGS HAPPEN
Julian was suddenly very scared. He wondered if he had better slide off the roof and run. Hewouldn't have much chance if the caravan went hurtling down the hill! But he didn't move. Heclung to the chimney with both hands, whilst the men shoved hard against the caravan.
It ran a few feet to the rocky ledge, and then stopped. Julian felt his forehead getting very damp,and he saw that his hands were trembling. He felt ashamed of being so scared, but he couldn'thelp it.
'Hey! Don't send it down the hill!' said Lou in alarm, and Julian's heart felt lighter. So they didn'tmean to destroy the caravan in that way! They had just moved it to get at something underneath.
But what could it be? Julian racked his brains to try and think what the floor of the hollow hadbeen like when Dobby and Trotter pulled their caravans into it. As far as he could remember itwas just an ordinary heathery hollow.
The men were now scrabbling away again by the back steps of the caravan. Julian was absolutelyeaten up with curiosity, but he did not dare even to move. He could find out the secret when themen had gone. Meantime he really must be patient or he would spoil everything.
68
There was some muttered talking, but Julian couldn't catch a word. Then, quite suddenly, therewas complete and utter silence. Not a word. Not a bump against the caravan. Not a pant or even agrunt. Nothing at all.
Julian lay still. Maybe the men were still there. He wasn't going to give himself away. He lay forquite a long time, waiting and wondering. But he heard nothing.
Then he saw a robin fly to a nearby bramble spray. It flicked its wings and looked about forcrumbs. It was a robin that came around when the children were having a meal - but it was not astame as most robins, and would not fly down until the children had, left the hollow.
Then a rabbit popped out of a hole on the hillside and capered about, running suddenly up to thehollow.
'Well,' thought Julian, 'it's plain the men aren't here now, or the birds and animals wouldn't beabout like this. There's another rabbit. Those men have gone somewhere - though goodnessknows where. I can peep over now and have a look, quite safely, I should think.'
He slid himself round and peered over the roof at the back end of the caravan. He looked down atthe ground. There was absolutely nothing to be seen to tell him what the men had been doing, orwhere they had gone! The heather grew luxuriantly there as it did everywhere else. There wasnothing to show what the men had been making such a disturbance about.
'This is really very queer,' thought Julian, beginning to wonder if he had been dreaming. 'Themen are certainly gone - vanished into thin air, apparently! Dare I get down and explore a bit?
No, I daren't. The men may appear at any moment, and it's quite on the cards they'll lose theirtemper if they find me here, and chuck both me and the caravans down the hill! It's pretty steepjust here, too.'
He lay there, thinking. He suddenly felt very hungry and thirsty. Thank goodness he had beensensible enough to take food up to the roof! He could at least have a meal while he was waitingfor the men to come back - if they ever did!
He began to eat his sandwiches. They tasted very good indeed. He finished them all and beganon the cake. That was good, too. He had brought a few plums up as well, and was very glad ofthem because he was thirsty. He flicked the plum stones from the roof before he thought what hewas doing.
'Dash! Why did I do that? If the men notice them they may remember they weren't there before.
Still, they've most of them gone into the heather!'
69
The sun came out a little and Julian felt hot. He wished the men would come again and go downthe hill. He was tired of lying flat on the hard roof. Also he was terribly sleepy. He yawnedsilently and shut his eyes.
How long he slept he had no idea - but he was suddenly awakened by feeling the caravan beingmoved again! He clutched the chimney in alarm, listening to the low voices of the two men.
They were pulling the caravan back into place again. Soon it was in the same position as before.
Then Julian heard a match struck and smelt smoke again.
The men went and sat on the rocky ledge and took out food they had brought, Julian did not dareto peep at them, though he felt sure they had their backs to him. The men ate, and talked in lowvoices, and then, to Julian's dismay, they lay down and went to sleep! He knew that they wereasleep because he could hear them snoring.
'Am I going to stay on this awful roof all day long?' he thought. 'I'm getting so cramped, lyingflat like this. I want to sit up!'
'R-r-r-r-r-r!' snored Lou and Dan. Julian felt that surely it would be all right to sit up now that themen were obviously asleep. So he sat up cautiously, stretching himself with pleasure.
He looked down on the two men, who were lying on their backs with their mouths open. Besidethem were two neat sacks, strong and thick. Julian wondered what was inside them. Theycertainly had not had them when they came up the track.
The boy gazed down the hillside, frowning, trying to probe the mystery of where the men hadbeen, and what they were doing up here - and suddenly he jumped violently. He stared as if hecould not believe his eyes.
A squat and ugly face was peering out from a bramble bush there. There was almost no nose, andan enormous mouth. Who could it be? Was it someone spying on Lou and Dan? But what a face!
It didn't seem human.
A hand came up to rub the face - and Julian saw that it was hairy. With a start he knew who theface belonged to - Pongo the chimpanzee! No wonder he had thought it such an ugly, unhumanface. It was all right on a chimp, of course - quite a nice face - but not on a man.
Pongo stared at Julian solemnly, and Julian stared back, his mind in a whirl. What was Pongodoing there? Was Nobby with him? If so, Nobby was in danger, for at any moment the menmight wake up. He couldn't think what to do. If he called out to warn Nobby, he would wake themen.
70
Pongo was pleased to see Julian, and did not seem to think the roof of a caravan a curious placeto be in at all. After all, he often went up on the roofs of caravans. He nodded and blinked at theboy, and then scratched his head for a long time.
Then beside him appeared Nobby's face - a tear-stained face, bruised and swollen. He suddenlysaw Julian looking over the roof of the caravan, and his mouth fell open in surprise. He seemedabout to call out, and Julian shook his head frantically to stop him, pointing downwards to tryand warn Nobby that somebody was there.
But Nobby didn't understand. He grinned and, to Julian's horror, began to climb up the hillside tothe rocky ledge! The men were sleeping there, and Julian saw with dismay that Nobby wouldprobably heave himself up right on top of them.
'Look out!' he said, in a low, urgent voice. 'Look out, you fathead!'
But it was too late. Nobby heaved himself up on to the ledge, and, to his utmost horror, foundhimself sprawling on top of Tiger Dan! He gave a yell and tried to slide away - but Dan, rousingsuddenly, shot out a hand and gripped him.
Lou woke up, too. The men glared at poor Nobby, and the boy began to tremble, and to beg formercy.
'I didn't know you were here, I swear it! Let me go, let me go! I only came up to look for myknife that I lost yesterday!'
Dan shook him savagely. 'How long have you been here? You been spying?'
'No, no! I've only just come! I've been at the camp all morning - you ask Larry and Rossy. I beenhelping them!'
'You been spying on us, that's what you've been doing!' said Lou, in a cold, hard voice that filledthe listening Julian with dread. 'You've had plenty of beatings this week, but seemingly they ain'tenough. Well, up here, there's nobody to hear your yells, see? So we'll show you what a realbeating is! And if you can walk down to the camp after it, I'll be surprised.'
Nobby was terrified. He begged for mercy, he promised to do anything the men asked him, andtried to jerk his poor swollen face away from Dan's hard hands.
Julian couldn't bear it. He didn't want to give away the fact that it was he who had been spying,nor did he want to fight the men at all, for he was pretty certain he would get the worst of it. Butnobody could lie in silence, watching two men treat a young boy in such a way. He made up hismind to leap off the roof right on to the men, and to rescue poor Nobby if he could.
71
Nobby gave an anguished yell as Lou gave him a flick with his leather belt - but before Juliancould jump down to help him, somebody else bounded up! Somebody who bared his teeth andmade ugly animal noises of rage, somebody whose arms were far stronger than either Lou's orDan's - somebody who loved poor Nobby, and wasn't going to let him be beaten any more!
It was Pongo. The chimpanzee had been watching the scene with his sharp little eyes. He hadstill hidden himself in the bush, for he was afraid of Lou and Dan - but now, hearing Nobby'scries, he leapt out of the brambles and flung himself on the astonished men.
He bit Lou's arm hard. Then he bit Dan's leg. The men yelled loudly, much more loudly thanpoor Nobby had. Lou lashed out with his leather belt, and it caught Pongo on the shoulder. Thechimpanzee made a shrill chattering noise, and leapt on Lou with his arms open, clasping theman to him, trying to bite his throat.
Tiger Dan rushed down the hill at top speed, terrified of the angry chimpanzee. Lou yelled toNobby.
'Call him off! He'll kill me!'
'Pongo!' shouted Nobby. 'Stop it! Pongo! Come here.'
Pongo gave Nobby a look of the greatest surprise. 'What!' he seemed to say, 'you won't let mepunish this bad man who beat you? Well, well - whatever you say must be right!'
And the chimpanzee, giving Lou one last vicious nip, let the man go. Lou followed Dan downthe hill at top speed, and Julian heard him crashing through the bushes as if a hundredchimpanzees were after him.
Nobby sat down, trembling. Pongo, not quite sure if his beloved friend was angry with him ornot, crept up to him putting a paw on the boy's knee. Nobby put his arm round the anxiousanimal, and Pongo chattered with joy.
Julian slid down from the roof of the caravan and went to Nobby. He, too, sat down beside him.
He put his arm round the trembling boy and gave him a hug.
'I was just coming to give you a hand, when Pongo shot up the hill,' he said.
'Were you really?' said Nobby, his face lighting up. 'You're a real friend, you are. Good asPongo, here.'
And Julian felt quite proud to be ranked in bravery with the chimpanzee!
15.


















































Chapter Sixteen A SURPRISING DISCOVERY
Chapter Sixteen A SURPRISING DISCOVERY
'Listen - somebody's coming!' said Nobby, and Pongo gave an ugly growl. The sound of voicescould be heard coming up the hill. Then a dog barked.
'It's all right. It's Timmy - and the others,' said Julian, unspeakably glad to welcome them back.
He stood up and yelled.
'All right! Come along!'
George, Timmy, Dick and Anne came running up the track. 'Hallo!' shouted Dick. 'We thought itwould be safe, because we saw Lou and Dan in the distance, running along at the bottom of thehill. I say - there's Pongo!'
Pongo shook hands with Dick, and then went to the back of Timmy, to shake hands with his tail.
But Timmy was ready for him, and backing round, he held out his paw to Pongo instead. It wasvery funny to see the two animals solemnly shaking hands with one another.
'Hallo, Nobby!' said Dick. 'Goodness - what have you been doing to yourself? You look as ifyou've been in the wars.'
'Well, I have, rather,' said Nobby, with a feeble grin. He was very much shaken, and did not getup. Pongo ran to Anne and tried to put his arms round her.
'Oh, Pongo - you squeeze too hard,' said Anne. 'Julian, did anything happen? Did the men come?
Have you any news?'
'Plenty,' said Julian. 'But what I want first is a jolly good drink. I've had none all day. Ginger-beer, I think.'
'We're all thirsty. I'll get five bottles - no, six, because I expect Pongo would like some.'
Pongo loved ginger-beer. He sat down with the children on the rocky ledge, and took his glassfrom Anne just like a child. Timmy was a little jealous, but as he didn't like ginger-beer hecouldn't make a fuss.
Julian began to tell the others about his day, and how he had hidden on the caravan roof. Hedescribed how the men had come - and had gone under the caravan - and then moved it. They alllistened with wide eyes. What a story!
Then Nobby told his part. 'I butted in and almost gave the game away,' he said, when Julian hadgot as far as the men falling asleep and snoring. 'But, you see, I had to come and warn you. Lou73
and Dan swear they'll poison Timmy somehow, even if they have to dope him, put him into asack and take him down to the camp to do it. Or they might knock him on the head.'
'Let them try!' said George, in her fiercest voice, and put her arm round Timmy. Pongo at onceput his arm round Timmy too.
'And they said they'd damage your caravans too - maybe put a fire underneath and burn them up,'
went on Nobby.
The four children stared at him in horror. 'But they wouldn't do a thing like that, surely?' saidJulian, at last. They'd get into trouble with the police if they did.'
'Well, I'm just telling you what they said,' Nobby went on. 'You don't know Lou and Tiger Danlike I do. They'll stick at nothing to get their way - or to get anybody out of their way. They triedto poison Timmy, didn't they? And poor old Barker got it instead.'
'Is - is Barker - all right?' asked Anne.
'No,' said Nobby. 'He's dying, I think. I've given him to Lucilla to dose. She's a marvel with sickanimals. I've put Growler with the other dogs. He's safe with them.'
He stared round at the other children, his mouth trembling, sniffing as if he had a bad cold.
'I daren't go back,' he said, in a low voice, 'I daren't. They'll half-kill me.'
'You're not going back, so that's settled,' said Julian, in a brisk voice. 'You're staying here withus. We shall love to have you. It was jolly decent of you to come up and warn us - and bad luckto have got caught like that. You're our friend now - and we'll stick together.'
Nobby couldn't say a word, but his face shone. He rubbed a dirty hand across his eyes, thengrinned his old grin. He nodded his head, not trusting himself to speak, and the children allthought how nice he was. Poor old Nobby.
They finished their ginger-beer and then Julian got up. 'And now,' he said, 'we will do a littleexploring and find out where those men went, shall we?'
'Oh yes!' cried George, who had sat still quite long enough. 'We must find out! Do we have to getunder the caravan, Julian?'
''Fraid so,' said Julian. 'You sit there quietly, Nobby, and keep guard in case Lou or Dan comeback.'
He didn't think for a moment that they would, but he could see that Nobby needed to sit quietlyfor a while. Nobby, however, had different ideas. He was going to share this adventure!
74
'Timmy's guard enough, and so is Pongo,' he said. They'll hear anyone coming half a mile away.
I'm in on this!'
And he was. He went scrabbling underneath the low-swung base of the caravan with the others,eager to find out anything he could.
But it was impossible to explore down in the heather, with the caravan base just over their heads.
They had no room at all. Like Dan and Lou they soon felt that they would have to move the van.
It took all five of them, with Pongo giving a shove, too, to move the caravan a few feet away.
Then down they dropped to the thick carpet of heather again.
The tufts came up easily by the roots, because the men had already pulled them up once that dayand then replanted them. The children dragged up a patch of heather about five feet square, andthen gave an exclamation.
'Look! Boards under the heather!'
'Laid neatly across and across. What for?'
'Pull them up!'
The boys pulled up the planks one by one and piled them on one side. Then they saw that theboards had closed up the entrance of a deep hole. 'I'll get my torch,' said Julian. He fetched it andflashed it on.
The light showed them a dark hole, going down into the hillside, with footholds sticking out ofone side. They all sat and gazed down in excitement.
'To think we went and put our caravan exactly over the entrance of the men's hiding-place!' saidDick. 'No wonder they were wild! No wonder they changed their minds and told us we could godown to the lake and camp there instead of here!'
'Gosh!' said Julian, staring into the hole. 'So that's where the men went! Where does it lead to?
They were down there a mighty long time. They were clever enough to replace the planks anddrag some of the heather over them, too, to hide them when they went down.'
Pongo suddenly took it into his head to go down the hole. Down he went, feeling for thefootholds with his hairy feet, grinning up at the others. He disappeared at the bottom. Julian'storch could not pick him out at all.
'Hey, Pongo! Don't lose yourself down there!' called Nobby, anxiously. But Pongo had gone.
'Blow him!' said Nobby. 'He'll never find his way back, if he goes wandering about underground.
I'll have to go after him. Can I have your torch, Julian?'
75
'I'll come too,' said Julian. 'George, get me your torch as well, will you?'
'It's broken,' said George. 'I dropped it last night. And nobody else has got one.'
'What an awful nuisance!' said Julian. 'I want us to go and explore down there - but we can't withonly one torch. Well, I'll just go down with Nobby and get Pongo - have a quick look round andcome back. I may see something worth seeing!'
Nobby went down first, and Julian followed, the others all kneeling round the hole, watchingthem enviously. They disappeared.
'Pongo!' yelled Nobby. 'Pongo! Come here, you idiot!'
Pongo had not gone very far. He didn't like the dark down there very much, and he came toNobby as soon as he saw the light of the torch. The boys found themselves in a narrow passageat the bottom of the hole, which widened as they went further into the hill.
'Must be caves somewhere,' said Julian, flashing his torch round. 'We know that a lot of springsrun out of this hill. I daresay that through the centuries the water has eaten away the softer stuffand made caves and tunnels everywhere in the hill. And somewhere in a cave Lou and Dan storeaway things they don't want anyone to know about. Stolen goods, probably.'
The passage ended in a small cave that seemed to have no other opening out of it at all. Therewas nothing in it. Julian flashed his torch up and down the walls.
He saw footholds up one part, and traced them to a hole in the roof, which must have been made,years before, by running water. That's the way we go!' he said. 'Come on.'
'Wait!' said Nobby. 'Isn't your torch getting rather faint?'
'Goodness - yes!' said Julian in alarm, and shook his torch violently to make the light brighter.
But the battery had almost worn out, and no better light came. Instead the light grew even fainter,until it was just a pin-prick in the torch.
'Come on - we'd better get back at once,' said Julian, feeling a bit scared. 'I don't want to wanderabout here in the pitch dark. Not my idea of fun at all.'
Nobby took firm hold of Pongo's hairy paw and equally firm hold of Julian's jersey. He didn'tmean to lose either of them! The light in the torch went out completely. Now they must find theirway back in black darkness.
Julian felt round for the beginning of the passage that led back to the hole. He found it and madehis way up it, feeling the sides with his hands. It wasn't a pleasant experience at all, and Julian76
was thankful that he and Nobby had only gone a little way into the hill. It would have been like anightmare if they had gone well in, and then found themselves unable to see the way back.
They saw a faint light shining further on and guessed it was the daylight shining down theentrance-hole. They stumbled thankfully towards it. They looked up and saw the anxious faces ofthe other three peering down at them, unable to see them.
'We're back!' called Julian, beginning to climb up. 'My torch went out, and we daren't go veryfar. We've got Pongo, though.'
The others helped to pull them out at the top of the hole. Julian told them about the hole in theroof of the little cave.
That's where the men went,' he said. 'And tomorrow, when we've all bought torches, and matchesand candles, that's where we're going, too! We'll go down to the town and buy what we want,and come back and do a Really Good Exploration!'
'We're going to have an adventure after all,' said Anne, in rather a small voice.
''Fraid so,' said Julian. 'But you can stay at the farm with Mrs Mackie for the day, Anne dear.
Don't you come with us.'
'If you're going on an adventure, I'm coming, too,' said Anne. 'So there! I wouldn't dream of notcoming.'
'All right,' said Julian. 'We'll all go together. Golly, things are getting exciting!'
16.








































































Chapter Seventeen ANOTHER VISIT FROM LOU AND DAN
Chapter Seventeen ANOTHER VISIT FROM LOU AND DAN
Nobody disturbed the children that night, and Timmy did not bark once. Nobby slept on a pile ofrugs in the boy's caravan, and Pongo cuddled up to him. The chimpanzee seemed delighted atstaying with the caravanners. Timmy was rather jealous that another animal should be with them,and wouldn't take any notice of Pongo at all.
The next morning, after breakfast, the children discussed who was to go down to the town. 'NotNobby and Pongo, because they wouldn't be allowed in the bus together,' said Julian. 'They hadbetter stay behind.'
77
'Not by ourselves?' said Nobby, looking alarmed. 'Suppose Lou and Uncle Dan come up? Even ifI've got Pongo I'd be scared.'
'Well, I'll stay here, too,' said Dick. 'We don't all need to go to buy torches. Don't forget to postthat letter to Daddy and Mother, Julian.'
They had written a long letter to their parents, telling them of the exciting happenings. Julian putit into his pocket. 'I'll post it all right,' he said. 'Well, I suppose we might as well go now. Comeon, girls. Keep a look-out, Dick, in case those rogues come back.'
George, Timmy, Anne and Julian went down the hill together, Timmy running on in front, histail wagging nineteen to the dozen. Pongo climbed up to the roof of the red caravan to watchthem go. Nobby and Dick sat down in the warm sun on the ledge, their heads resting on springyclumps of heather.
'It's nice up here,' said Nobby. 'Much nicer than down below. I wonder what everyone is thinkingabout Pongo and me. I bet Mr Gorgio, the head of the circus, is wild that the chimpanzee's gone.
I bet he'll send up to fetch us.'
Nobby was right. Two people were sent up to get him - Lou and Tiger Dan. They came creepingup through the bracken and heather, keeping a sharp eye for Timmy or Pongo.
Pongo sensed them long before they could be seen and warned Nobby. Nobby went very pale.
He was terrified of the two scoundrels.
'Get into one of the caravans,' said Dick in a low voice. 'Go on. I'll deal with those fellows - if itis them. Pongo will help me if necessary.'
Nobby scuttled into the green caravan and shut the door. Dick sat where he was. Pongo squattedon the roof of the caravan, watching.
Lou and Dan suddenly appeared. They saw Dick, but did not see Pongo. They looked all roundfor the others.
'What do you want?' said Dick.
'Nobby and Pongo,' said Lou with a scowl. 'Where are they?'
'They're going to stay on with us,' said Dick.
'Oh, no, they're not!' said Tiger Dan. 'Nobby's in my charge, see? I'm his uncle.'
'Funny sort of uncle,' remarked Dick. 'How's that dog you poisoned, by the way?'
Tiger Dan went purple in the face. He looked as if he would willingly have thrown Dick downthe hill.
78
'You be careful what you say to me!' he said, beginning to shout.
Nobby, hidden in the caravan, trembled when he heard his uncle's angry yell. Pongo kept quitestill, his face set and ugly.
'Well, you may as well say good-bye and go,' said Dick in a calm voice to Dan. 'I've told you thatNobby and Pongo are staying with us for the present.'
'Where is Nobby?' demanded Tiger Dan, looking as if he would burst with rage at any moment.
'Wait till I get my hands on him. Wait . . .'
He began to walk towards the caravans - but Pongo was not having any of that! He leapt straightoff the roof on to the horrified man, and flung him to the ground. He made such a terriblesnarling noise that Dan was terrified.
'Call him off!' he yelled. 'Lou, come and help.'
'Pongo won't obey me,' said Dick still sitting down looking quite undisturbed. 'You'd better gobefore he bites big pieces out of you.'
Dan staggered to the rock ledge, looking as if he would box Dick's ears. But the boy did notmove, and somehow Dan did not dare to touch him. Pongo let him go and stood glowering athim, his great hairy arms hanging down his sides, ready to fly at either of the men if they camenear.
Tiger Dan picked up a stone - and as quick as lightning Pongo flung himself on him again andsent the man rolling down the hill. Lou fled in terror. Dan got up and fled, too, yelling furiouslyas he went. Pongo chased them in delight. He, too, picked up stones and flung them with a veryaccurate aim, so that Dick kept hearing yells of pain.
Pongo came back, looking extremely pleased with himself. He went to the green caravan, asDick shouted to Nobby.
'All right, Nobby. They've gone. Pongo and I won the battle!'
Nobby came out. Pongo put his arm round him at once and chattered nonsense in his ear. Nobbylooked rather ashamed of himself.
'Bit of a coward, aren't I?' he said. 'Leaving you out here all alone.'
'I enjoyed it,' said Dick truthfully. 'And I'm sure Pongo did!'
'You don't know what dangerous fellows Lou and Dan are,' said Nobby, looking down thehillside to make sure the men were really gone. 'I tell you they'd stick at nothing. They'd burn79
your caravans, hurl them down the hill, poison your dog, and do what harm they could to you,too. You don't know them like I do!'
'Well, as a matter of fact, we've had some pretty exciting adventures with men just as tough asDan and Lou,' said Dick. 'We always seem to be falling into the middle of some adventure orother. Now, last hols we went to a place called Smuggler's Top - and, my word, the adventureswe had there! You wouldn't believe them!'
'You tell me and Pongo,' said Nobby, sitting down beside Dick. 'We've plenty of time before theothers come back.'
So Dick began to tell the tale of all the other thrilling adventures that the five of them had had,and the time flew. Both boys were surprised when they heard Timmy barking down the track,and knew that the others were back.
George came tearing up with Timmy at her heels. 'Are you all right? Did anything happen whilewe were away? Do you know, we saw Lou and Tiger Dan getting on the bus when we got off it!
They were carrying bags as if they meant to go away and stay somewhere.'
Nobby brightened up at once. 'Did you really? Good! They came up here, you know, and Pongochased them down the hill. They must have gone back to the camp, collected their bags, andgone to catch the bus. Hurrah!'
'We've got fine torches,' said Julian, and showed Dick his. 'Powerful ones. Here's one for you,Dick - and one for you, Nobby.'
'Oooh - thanks,' said Nobby. Then he went red. 'I haven't got enough money to pay you for sucha grand torch,' he said awkwardly.
'It's a present for you,' said Anne at once, 'a present for a friend of ours, Nobby!'
'Coo! Thanks awfully,' said Nobby, looking quite overcome. 'I've never had a present before.
You're decent kids, you are.'
Pongo held out his hand to Anne and made a chattering noise as if to say: 'What about one forme, too?'
'Oh - we didn't bring one for Pongo!' said Anne. 'Why ever didn't we?'
'Good thing you didn't,' said Nobby. 'He would have put it on and off all day long and wasted thebattery in no time!'
'I'll give him my old torch,' said George. 'It's broken, but he won't mind that!'
80
Pongo was delighted with it. He kept pressing down the knob that should make the light flash -and when there was no light he looked all about on the ground as if the light must have droppedout! The children roared at him. He liked them to laugh at him. He did a little dance all roundthem to show how pleased he was.
'Look here - wouldn't it be a jolly good time to explore underground now that we know Lou andDan are safely out of the way?' asked Julian suddenly. 'If they've got bags with them, surely thatmeans they're going to spend the night somewhere and won't be back till tomorrow at least. We'dbe quite safe to go down and explore.'
'Yes, we could,' said George eagerly, 'I'm longing to get down there and Make Discoveries!'
'Well, let's have something to eat first,' said Dick. 'It's long past our dinner-time. It must be abouthalf-past one. Yes, it is!'
'George and I will get you a meal,' said Anne. 'We called at the farm on our way up and got alovely lot of food. Come on, George.'
George got up unwillingly. Timmy followed her, sniffing expectantly. Soon the two girls werebusy getting a fine meal ready, and they all sat on the rocky ledge to eat it.
'Mrs Mackie gave us this enormous bar of chocolate for a present today,' said Anne, showing agreat slab to Dick and Nobby. 'Isn't it lovely? No, Pongo, it's not for you. Eat your sandwichesproperly, and don't grab.'
'I vote we take some food down into the hill with us,' said Julian. 'We may be quite a long timedown there, and we shan't want to come back at tea-time.'
'Oooh - a picnic inside the hill!' said Anne. That would be thrilling. I'll soon pack up some foodin the kitbag. I won't bother to make sandwiches. We'll take a new loaf, butter, ham and a cake,and cut what we want. What about something to drink?'
'Oh, we can last out till we get back,' said Julian. 'Just take something to eat to keep us going tillwe have finished exploring.'
George and Nobby cleared up and rinsed the plates. Anne wrapped up some food in greasedpaper, and packed it carefully into the kitbag for Julian to carry. She popped the big bar ofchocolate into the bag, too. It would be nice to eat at odd moments.
At last they were all ready. Jimmy wagged his tail. He knew they were going somewhere.
81
The five of them pushed the caravan back a few feet to expose the hole. They had all tugged thevan back into place the night before, in case Lou and Dan came to go down the hole again. Noone could get down it if the caravan was over it.
The boards had been laid roughly across the hole and the boys took them off, tossing them to oneside. As soon as Pongo saw the hole he drew back, frightened.
'He's remembered the darkness down there,' said George. 'He doesn't like it. Come on, Pongo.
You'll be all right. We've all got torches!'
But nothing would persuade Pongo to go down that hole again. He cried like a baby when Nobbytried to make him.
'It's no good,' said Julian. 'You'll have to stop up here with him.'
'What - and miss all the excitement!' cried Nobby indignantly. 'I jolly well won't. We can tie oldPongo up to a wheel of the van so that he won't wander off. Lou and Dan are away somewhere,and no one else is likely to tackle a big chimp like Pongo. We'll tie him up.'
So Pongo was tied firmly to one of the caravan wheels. 'You stay there like a good chimp till wecome back,' said Nobby, putting a pail of water beside him in case he should want a drink. 'We'llbe back soon!'
Pongo was sad to see them go - but nothing would have made him go down that hole again! Sohe sat watching the children disappear one by one. Timmy jumped down, too, and they were allgone. Gone on another adventure. What would happen now?
17.







































































Chapter Eighteen INSIDE THE HILL
Chapter Eighteen INSIDE THE HILL
The children had all put on extra jerseys, by Julian's orders, for he knew it would be cold insidethe dark hill. Nobby had been lent an old one of Dick's. They were glad of them as soon as theywere walking down the dark passage that led to the first cave, for the air was very chilly.
They came to the small cave and Julian flashed his torch to show them where the footholds wentup the wall to a hole in the roof.
'It's exciting,' said George, thrilled. 'I like this sort of thing. Where does that hole in the roof leadto, I wonder? I'll go first, Ju.'
82
'No, you won't,' said Julian firmly. 'I go first. You don't know what might be at the top!'
Up he went, his torch held in his mouth, for he needed both hands to climb. The footholds werestrong nails driven into the rock of the cave-wall, and were fairly easy to climb.
He got to the hole in the roof and popped his head through. He gave a cry of astonishment.
'I say! There's a most ENORMOUS cavern here - bigger than six dance-halls - and the walls areall glittering with something - phosphorescence, I should think.'
He scrambled out of the hole and stood on the floor of the immense cave. Its walls twinkled intheir queer light, and Julian shut off his torch. There was almost enough phosphorescent light inthe cavern to see by!
One by one the others came up and stared in wonder. 'It's like Aladdin's cave!' said Anne. 'Isn'tthat a queer light shining from the walls - and from the roof, too, Julian?'
Dick and George had rather a difficulty in getting Timmy up to the cavern, but they managed itat last. Timmy put his tail down at once when he saw the curious light gleaming everywhere. Butit went up again when George patted him.
'What an enormous place!' said Dick. 'Do you suppose this is where the men hide their stuff,whatever it is?'
Julian flashed his torch on again and swung it round and about, picking out the dark, rockycorners. 'Can't see anything hidden,' he said. 'But we'd better explore the cave properly before wego on.'
So the five children explored every nook and cranny of the gleaming cave, but could findnothing at all. Julian gave a sudden exclamation and picked something up from the floor.
'A cigarette end!' he said. 'That shows that Lou and Dan have been here. Come on, let's see ifthere's a way out of this great cave.'
Right at the far end, half-way up the gleaming wall, was a large hole, rather like a tunnel. Julianclimbed up to it and called to the others. 'This is the way they went. There's a dead match just atthe entrance to the tunnel or whatever this is.'
It was a curious tunnel, no higher than their shoulders in some places, and it wound about as itwent further into the hill. Julian thought that at one time water must have run through it. But itwas quite dry now. The floor of the tunnel was worn very smooth, as if a stream had hollowed itout through many, many years.
83
'I hope the stream won't take it into its head to begin running suddenly again!' said George. 'Weshould get jolly wet!'
The tunnel went on for some way, and Anne was beginning to feel it must go on for ever. Thenthe wall at one side widened out and made a big rocky shelf. Julian, who was first, flashed historch into the hollow.
'I say!' he shouted. 'Here's where those fellows keep their stores! There's a whole pile of thingshere!'
The others crowded up as closely as they could, each of them flashing their torch brightly. Onthe wide, rocky shelf lay boxes and packages, sacks and cases. The children stared at them.
'What's in them?' said Nobby, full of intense curiosity. 'Let's see!'
He put down his torch and undid a sack. He slid in his hand - and brought it out holding a pieceof shining gold plate!
'Coo!' said Nobby. 'So that's what the police were after last year when they came and searchedthe camp! And it was hidden safely here. Coo, look at all these things. Jumping Jiminy, theymust have robbed the Queen herself!'
The sack was full of exquisite pieces of gold plate - cups, dishes, small trays. The children setthem all out on the ledge. How they gleamed in the light of their torches!
'They're thieves in a very big way,' said Julian. 'No doubt about that. Let's look in this box.'
The box was not locked, and the lid opened easily. Inside was a piece of china, a vase so fragilethat it looked as if it might break at a breath!
'Well, I don't know anything about china,' said Julian, 'but I suppose this is a very precious piece,worth thousands of pounds. A collector of china would probably give a very large sum for it.
What rogues Lou and Dan are!'
'Look here!' suddenly said George, and she pulled leather boxes out of a bag. 'Jewellery!'
She opened the boxes. The children exclaimed in awe. Diamonds flashed brilliantly, rubiesglowed, emeralds shone green. Necklaces, bracelets, rings, brooches - the beautiful thingsgleamed in the light of the five torches.
There was a tiara in one box that seemed to be made only of big diamonds. Anne picked it out ofits box gently. Then she put it on her hair.
'I'm a princess! It's my crown!' she said.
84
'You look lovely,' said Nobby admiringly. 'You look as grand as Delphine the Bareback Riderwhen she goes into the ring on her horse, with jewels shining all over her!'
Anne put on necklaces and bracelets and sat there on the ledge like a little princess, shiningbrightly in the magnificent jewels. Then she took them off and put them carefully back into theirsatin-lined boxes.
'Well - what a haul those two rogues have made!' said Julian, pulling out some gleaming silverplate from another package. 'They must be very fine burglars!'
'I know how they work,' said Dick. 'Lou's a wonderful acrobat, isn't he? I bet he does all theclimbing about up walls and over roofs and into windows - and Tiger Dan stands below andcatches everything he throws down.'
'You're about right,' said Nobby, handling a beautiful silver cup. 'Lou could climb anywhere - upivy, up pipes - even up the bare wall of a house, I shouldn't wonder! And jump! He can jump likea cat. He and Tiger Dan have been in this business for a long time, I expect. That's where UncleDan went at night, of course, when we were on tour, and I woke up and found him gone out ofthe caravan!'
'And I expect he stores the stolen goods in that wagon of his you showed us,' said Julian,remembering. 'You told us how angry he was with you once when you went and rummagedabout in it. He probably stored it there, and then he and Lou came up here each year and hid thestuff underground - waiting till the police had given up the search for the stolen things - and thenthey come and get it and sell it somewhere safe.'
'A jolly clever plan,' said Dick. 'What a fine chance they've got - wandering about from place toplace like that hearing of famous jewels or plate - slipping out at night - and Lou climbing up tobedrooms like a cat. I wonder how they found this place - it's a most wonderful hidey-hole!'
'Yes. Nobody would ever dream of it!' said George.
'And then we go and put our caravan bang on the top of the entrance - just when they want to putsomething in and take something out!' said Julian. 'I must have annoyed them.'
'What are we going to do about it?' said Dick.
Tell the police, of course,' said Julian, promptly. 'What do you suppose? My word, I'd like to seethe face of the policeman who first sees this little haul.'
They put everything back carefully. Julian shone his torch up the tunnel. 'Shall we explore a bitfurther, or not?' he said. 'It still goes on. Look!'
85
'Better get back,' said Nobby. 'Now we've found this we'd better do something about it.'
'Oh, let's just see where the tunnel goes to,' said George. 'It won't take a minute!'
'All right,' said Julian, who wanted to go up the tunnel as much as she did. He led the way, historch shining brightly.
The tunnel came out into another cave, not nearly as big as the one they had left behind. At oneend something gleamed like silver, and seemed to move. There was a curious sound there, too.
'What is it?' said Anne, alarmed. They stood and listened.
'Water!' said Julian, suddenly. 'Of course! Can't you hear it flowing along? It's an undergroundstream, flowing through the hill to find an opening where it can rush out.'
'Like that stream we saw before we came to our caravan camping-place,' said George. 'It rushedout of the hill. Do you remember? This may be the very one!'
'I expect it is!' said Dick. They went over to it and watched it. It rushed along in its ownhollowed out channel, close to the side of the cave-wall.
'Maybe at one time it ran across this cave and down the tunnel we came up by,' said Julian. 'Yes,look - there's a big kind of groove in the floor of the cave here - the stream must have run thereonce. Then for some reason it went a different way.'
'Let's get back,' said Nobby. 'I want to know if Pongo's all right. I don't somehow feel verycomfortable about him. And I'm jolly cold, too. Let's go back to the sunshine and have somethingto eat. I don't want a picnic down here, after all.'
'All right,' said Julian, and they made their way back through the tunnel. They passed the rockshelf on which lay the treasure, and came at last to the enormous gleaming cavern. They wentacross it to the hole that led down into the small cave. Down they went. Julian and George tryingto manage Timmy between them. But it was very awkward, for he was a big dog.
Then along the passage to the entrance-hole. They all felt quite pleased at the idea of going upinto the sunshine again.
'Can't see any daylight shining down the hole,' said Julian puzzled. 'It would be near here.'
He came up against a blank wall, and was surprised. Where was the hole? Had they missed theirway? Then he flashed his torch above him and saw the hole there - but there was no daylightshining in!
'I say!' said Julian, in horror. 'I say! What do you think's happened?'
'What?' asked everyone, in panic.
86
'The hole is closed!' said Julian. 'We can't get out! Somebody's been along and put those planksacross - and I bet they've put the caravan over them, too. We can't get out!'
Everyone stared up at the closed entrance in dismay. They were prisoners.
'Whatever are we to do?' said George. 'Julian - what are we going to do?'
18.



































































Chapter Nineteen PRISONERS UNDERGROUND
Chapter Nineteen PRISONERS UNDERGROUND
Julian didn't answer. He was angry with himself for not thinking that this might happen!
Although Lou and Dan had been seen getting on the bus with bags, they might easily not havebeen spending the night away - the bags might contain things they wanted to sell - stolen goodsof some kind.
'They came back quickly - and came up the hill, I suppose, to have another try at getting Nobbyand Pongo back,' said Julian, out loud. 'What an idiot I am to leave things to chance like that.
Well - I'll have a try at shifting these planks. I should be able to, with luck.'
He did his best, and did shift them to a certain extent - but, as he feared, the caravan had been runback over the hole, and even if he managed to shift some of the planks it was impossible to makea way out.
'Perhaps Pongo can help,' he said suddenly. He shouted loudly: 'Pongo! Pongo! Come and help!'
Everyone stood still, hoping that they would hear Pongo chattering somewhere near, or scrapingat the planks above. But there was no sign or sound of Pongo.
Everyone called, but it was no use. Pongo didn't come. What had happened to him? Poor Nobbyfelt very worried.
'I wish I knew what has happened,' he kept saying. 'I feel as if something horrid has happened topoor old Pongo. Where can he be?'
Pongo was not very far away. He was lying on his side, his head bleeding. He was quiteunconscious, and could not hear the frantic calls of the children at all. Poor Pongo!
What Julian had feared had actually happened. Lou and Dan had come back up the hill, bringingmoney with them to tempt Nobby and Pongo back. When they had got near to the hollow, theyhad stood still and called loudly.
87
'Nobby! Nobby! We've come to make friends, not to hurt you! We've got money for you. Be asensible boy and come back to the camp. Mr Gorgio is asking for you.'
When there had been no reply at all, the men had gone nearer. Then they had seen Pongo andhad stopped. The chimpanzee could not get at them because he was tied up. He sat there snarling.
'Where have those kids gone?' asked Lou. Then he saw that the caravan had been moved back alittle, and he at once guessed.
'They've found the way underground! The interfering little brutes! See, they've moved one of thecaravans off the hole. What do we do now!'
'This first,' said Tiger Dan, in a brutal voice, and he picked up an enormous stone. He threw itwith all his force at poor Pongo, who tried to leap out of the way. But the rope prevented him,and the stone hit him full on the head.
He gave a loud scream and fell down at once, lying quite still.
'You've gone and killed him,' said Lou.
'So much the better!' said Tiger Dan. 'Now let's go and see if the entrance-hole is open. Thosekids want their necks wringing!'
They went to the hollow and saw at once that the hole had been discovered, opened, and that thechildren must have gone down it.
'They're down there now,' said Tiger Dan, almost choking with rage. 'Shall we go down and dealwith them - and get our stuff and clear off? We meant to clear off tomorrow, anyway. We mightas well get the stuff out now.'
'What - in the daylight - with any of the farm men about to see us!' said Lou with a sneer.
'Clever, aren't you?'
'Well, have you got a better idea?' asked Tiger Dan.
'Why not follow our plan?' said Lou. 'Go down when it's dark and collect the stuff. We can bringour wagon up as we planned to do tonight. We don't need to bother about forcing the children togo now - they're underground - and we can make them prisoners till we're ready to clear off!'
'I see,' said Dan, and he grinned suddenly, showing his ugly teeth. 'Yes - we'll close up the holeand run the caravan back over it - and come up tonight in the dark with the wagon - go down -collect everything - and shut up the hole again with the children in it. We'll send a card to Gorgiowhen we're safe and tell him to go up and set the kids free.'
88
'Why bother to do that?' said Lou, in a cruel voice. 'Let 'em starve underground, the interferinglittle beasts. Serve 'em right.'
'Can't do that,' said Dan. 'Have the police after us worse than ever. We'll have to chuck somefood down the hole, to keep them going till they're set free. No good starving them, Lou. There'dbe an awful outcry if we do anything like that.'
The two men carefully put back the boards over the top of the hole and replaced the heather tufts.
Then they ran the caravan back over the place. They looked at Pongo. The chimpanzee was stilllying on his side, and the men could see what a nasty wound he had on his head.
'He ain't dead,' said Lou, and gave him a kick. 'He'll come round all right. Better leave him here.
He might come to himself if we carried him back to camp, and fight us. He can't do us any harmtonight, tied up like that.'
They went away down the track. Not ten minutes afterwards the children came to the hole andfound it blocked up! If only they hadn't stopped to explore that tunnel a bit further, they wouldhave been able to get out and set Timmy on the two men.
But it was too late now. The hole was well and truly closed. No one could get out. No one couldfind poor Pongo and bathe his head. They were real prisoners.
They didn't like it at all. Anne began to cry, though she tried not to let the others see her. Nobbysaw that she was upset, and put his arm round her.
'Don't cry, little Anne,' he said. 'We'll be all right.'
'It's no good staying here,' said Julian, at last. 'We might as well go somewhere morecomfortable, and sit down and talk and eat. I'm hungry.'
They all went back down the passage, up through the hole in the roof, and into the enormouscavern. They found a sandy corner and sat down. Julian handed Anne the kitbag and she undid itto get the food inside.
'Better only have one torch going,' said Julian. 'We don't know how long we'll be here. We don'twant to be left in the dark!'
Everybody immediately switched off their torches. The idea of being lost in the dark inside thehill wasn't at all nice! Anne handed out slices of bread and butter, and the children put thin slicesof Mrs Mackie's delicious ham on them.
They felt distinctly better when they had all eaten a good meal. That was jolly good,' said Dick.
'No, we won't eat that chocolate, Anne. We may want it later on. Golly, I'm thirsty!'
89
'So am I,' said Nobby. 'My tongue's hanging out like old Timmy's. Let's go and get a drink.'
'Well, there was a stream in that other cave beyond the tunnel, wasn't there?' said Dick. 'We candrink from that. It'll be all right.'
'Well, I hope it will,' said Julian. 'We were told not to drink water that wasn't boiled while wewere caravanning - but we didn't know this sort of thing was going to happen! We'll go throughthe tunnel and get some water to drink from the stream.'
They made their way through the long, winding tunnel, and passed the shelf of stolen goods.
Then on they went and came out into the cave through which the stream rushed so quickly. Theydipped in their hands and drank thirstily. The water tasted lovely - so clear and cold.
Timmy drank too. He was puzzled at this adventure, but so long as he was with George he washappy. If his mistress suddenly took it into her head to live underground like a worm, that was allright - so long as Timmy was with her!
'I wonder if this stream does go to that hole in the hillside, and pours out there,' said Julian,suddenly. 'If it does, and we could follow it, we might be able to squeeze out.'
'We'd get terribly wet,' said George, 'but that wouldn't matter. Let's see if we can follow thewater.'
They went to where the stream disappeared into a tunnel rather like the dry one they had comealong. Julian shone his torch into it.
'We could wade along, I think,' he said. 'It is very fast but not very deep. I know - I'll go along itmyself and see where it goes, and come back and tell you.'
'No,' said George, at once. 'If you go, we all go. You might get separated from us. That would beawful.'
'All right,' said Julian. 'I thought there was no sense in us all getting wet, that's all. Come on,we'll try now.'
One by one they waded into the stream. The current tugged at their legs, for the water ran veryfast. But it was only just above their knees there. They waded along by the light of their torches,wondering where the tunnel would lead to.
Timmy half-waded, half-swam. He didn't like this water-business very much. It seemed silly tohim. He pushed ahead of Julian and then a little further down, jumped up to a ledge that ranbeside the water.
90
'Good idea, Tim,' said Julian, and he got up on to it too. He had to crouch down rather as hewalked because his head touched the roof of the tunnel if he didn't - but at least his legs were outof the icy-cold water! All the others did the same, and as long as the ledge ran along beside thestream they all walked along it.
But at times it disappeared and then they had to wade in the water again, which now suddenlygot deeper. 'Gracious! It's almost to my waist,' said Anne. 'I hope it doesn't get any deeper. I'mholding my clothes up as high as I can, but they'll get soaked soon.'
Fortunately the water got no deeper, but it seemed to go faster. 'We're going down hill a bit,' saidJulian at last. 'Perhaps we are getting near to where it pours out of the hill.'
They were! Some distance ahead of him Julian suddenly saw a dim light, and wonderedwhatever it could be. He soon knew! It was daylight creeping in through the water that pouredout of the hole in the hillside - poured out in a torrent into the sunshine.
'We're almost there!' cried Julian. 'Come on.'
With light hearts the children waded along in the water. Now they would soon be out in thewarm sunshine. They would find Pongo, and race down the hill in the warmth, catch the firstbus, and go to the police station.
But nothing like that happened at all. To their enormous disappointment the water got far toodeep to wade through, and Nobby stopped in fright. 'I daren't go no further,' he said. 'I'm almostoff my feet now with the water rushing by.'
'I am, too,' said Anne, frightened.
'Perhaps I can swim out,' said Julian, and he struck out. But he gave it up in dismay, for thetorrent of water was too much for him, and he was afraid of being hurled against the rocky sidesand having his head cracked.
It's no good,' he said, gloomily. 'No good at all. All that wading for nothing. It's far toodangerous to go any further - and yet daylight is only a few yards ahead. It's too sickening forwords.'
'We must go back,' said George. 'I'm afraid Timmy will be drowned if we don't. Oh, dear - wemust go all that way back!'
19.


































































Chapter Twenty MORE EXCITEMENT
Chapter Twenty MORE EXCITEMENT
It was a very sad and disappointed little company that made their way back to the cave. Alongthe tunnel they went, painfully and slowly, for it was not so easy against the current. Julianshivered; he was wet through with trying to swim.
At last they were back in the cave through which the stream flowed so swiftly. 'Let's run roundand round it to get warm,' said Julian. 'I'm frozen. Dick, let me have one of your dry jerseys. Imust take off these wet ones.'
The children ran round and round the cave, pretending to race one another, trying to get warm.
They did get warm in the end, and sank down in a heap on some soft sand in a corner, panting.
They sat there for a little while to get their breath.
Then they heard something. Timmy heard it first and growled. 'Jumping Jiminy, what's up withTimmy?' said Nobby, in fright. He was the most easily scared of the children, probably becauseof the frights he had had the last few days.
They all listened, George with her hand on Timmy's collar. He growled again, softly. The noisethey all heard was a loud panting coming from the stream over at the other side of the cave!
'Someone is wading up the stream,' whispered Dick, in astonishment. 'Did they get in at the placewhere we couldn't get out? They must have!'
'But who is it?' asked Julian. 'Can't be Lou or Dan. They wouldn't come that way when theycould come the right way. Sh! Whoever it is, is arriving in the cave. I'll shut off my torch.'
Darkness fell in the cave as the light from Julian's torch was clicked off. They all sat andlistened, and poor Nobby shook and shivered. Timmy didn't growl any more, which wassurprising. In fact, he even wagged his tail!
There was a sneeze from the other end of the cave - and then soft footsteps padded towards them.
Anne felt as if she must scream. WHO was it?
Julian switched on his torch suddenly, and its light fell on a squat, hairy figure, halting in thebright glare. It was Pongo!
'It's Pongo!' everyone yelled, and leapt up at once. Timmy ran over to the surprised chimpanzeeand sniffed round him in delight. Pongo put his arms round Nobby and Anne.
92
'Pongo! You've escaped! You must have bitten through your rope!' said Julian. 'How clever youare to find your way through that hole where the stream pours out. How did you know you wouldfind us here! Clever Pongo.'
Then he saw the big wound on poor Pongo's head. 'Oh look!' said Julian. 'He's been hurt! Iexpect those brutes threw a stone at him. Poor old Pongo.'
'Let's bathe his head,' said Anne. 'I'll use my hanky.'
But Pongo wouldn't let anyone touch his wound, not even Nobby. He didn't snap or snarl atthem, but simply held their hands away from him, and refused to leave go. So nobody couldbathe his head or bind it up.
'Never mind,' said Nobby at last, 'animals' wounds often heal up very quickly without anyattention at all. He won't let us touch it, that's certain. I expect Lou and Dan hit him with a stone,and knocked him unconscious when they came. They then shut up the hole and made usprisoners. Beasts!'
'I say,' suddenly said Dick. 'I say! I've got an idea. I don't know if it will work - but it really is anidea.'
'What?' asked everyone, thrilled.
'Well - what about tying a letter round Pongo's neck and sending him out of the hole again, totake the letter to the camp?' said Dick. 'He won't go to Lou or Dan because he's scared of them -but he'd go to any of the others all right, wouldn't he? Larry would be the best one. He seems tobe a good fellow.'
'Would Pongo understand enough to do all that, though?' asked Julian, doubtfully.
'We could try him,' said Nobby. 'I do send him here and there sometimes, just for fun - to takethe elephant's bat to Larry, for instance - or to put my coat away in my caravan.'
'Well, we could certainly try,' said Dick. 'I've got a notebook and a pencil. I'll write a note andwrap it up in another sheet, pin it together and tie it round Pongo's neck with a bit of string.'
So he wrote a note. It said:
'To whoever gets this note - please come up the hill to the hollow where there are two caravans.
Under the red one is the entrance to an underground passage. We are prisoners inside the hill.
Please rescue us soon.
Julian, Dick, George, Anne and Nobby.'
93
He read it out to the others. Then he tied the note round Pongo's neck. Pongo was surprised, butfortunately did not try to pull it off.
'Now, you give him his orders,' said Dick to Nobby. So Nobby spoke slowly and importantly tothe listening chimpanzee.
'Where's Larry? Go to Larry, Pongo. Fetch Larry. Go. GO!'
Pongo blinked at him and made a funny little noise as if he was saying: 'Please, Nobby, I don'twant to go.'
Nobby repeated everything again. 'Understand Pongo? I think you do. GO, then, GO. GO!'
And Pongo turned and went! He disappeared into the stream, splashing along by himself. Thechildren watched him as far as they could by the light of their torches.
'He really is clever,' said Anne. 'He didn't want to go a bit, did he? Oh, I do hope he finds Larry,and that Larry sees the note and reads it and sends someone to rescue us.'
'I hope the note doesn't get all soaked and pulpy in the water,' said Julian, rather gloomily. 'Gosh,I wish I wasn't so cold. Let's run round a bit again, then have a piece of chocolate.'
They ran about and played 'He' for a time till they all felt warm again. Then they decided to sitdown and have some chocolate, and play some sort of guessing game to while away the time.
Timmy sat close to Julian, and the boy was very glad.
'He's like a big hot-water bottle,' he said. 'Sit closer, Tim. That's right. You'll soon warm me up!'
It was dull after a time, sitting in the light of one torch, for they dared not use them all. Already itseemed as if Julian's torch was getting a little dim. They played all the games they could think ofand then yawned.
'What's the time? I suppose it must be getting dark outside now. I feel quite sleepy.'
'It's nine o'clock almost,' said Julian. 'I hope Pongo has got down to the camp all right and foundsomeone. We could expect help quite soon, if so.'
'Well, then, we'd better get along to the passage that leads to the hole,' said Dick, getting up. 'It'squite likely that if Larry or anyone else comes they'll not see the footholds leading up the wallout of that first little cave. They might not know where we were!'
This seemed very likely. They all made their way down the tunnel that led past the hidden storeof valuables, and came out into the enormous cave. There was a nice sandy corner just by thehole that led down into the first small cave, and the children decided to sit there, rather than in94
the passage or in the first rocky and uncomfortable little cave. They cuddled up together forwarmth, and felt hungry.
Anne and Nobby dozed off to sleep. George almost fell asleep, too. But the boys and Timmykept awake, and talked in low voices. At least, Timmy didn't talk, but wagged his tail whenevereither Dick or Julian said anything. That was his way of joining in their conversation.
After what seemed a long while Timmy growled, and the two boys sat up straight. Whatever itwas that Timmy's sharp ears had heard, they had heard nothing at all. And they continued to hearnothing. But Timmy went on growling.
Julian shook the others awake. 'I believe help has come,' he said. 'But we'd better not go and seein case it's Dan and Lou come back. So wake up and look lively!'
They were all wide awake at once. Was it Larry come in answer to their note - or was it thosehorrid men, Tiger Dan and Lou the acrobat?
They soon knew! A head suddenly poked out of the hole nearby, and a torch shone on them.
Timmy growled ferociously and struggled to fly at the head, but George held on firmly to hiscollar, thinking it might be Larry.
But it wasn't! It was Lou the acrobat, as the children knew only too well when they heard hisvoice. Julian shone his torch on to him.
'I hope you've enjoyed your little selves,' came Lou's harsh voice. 'And you keep that dog undercontrol, boy, or I'll shoot him. See? I'm not standing no nonsense from that dog this time. Have alook at this here gun!'
To George's horror she saw that Lou was pointing a gun at poor Timmy. She gave a scream andflung herself in front of him. 'Don't you dare to shoot my dog! I'll - I'll - I'll . . .'
She couldn't think of anything bad enough to do to the man who could shoot Timmy, and shestopped, choked by tears of rage and fear. Timmy, not knowing what the gun was, couldn't forthe life of him understand why George wouldn't let him get at his enemy - such a nice position,too, with his head poking through a hole like that. Timmy felt he could deal with that head veryquickly.
'Now, you kids, get up and go into that tunnel,' said Lou. 'Go on - go right ahead of me, and don'tdare to stop. We've got work to do here tonight, and we're not going to have any moreinterference from kids like you. See?'
95
The children saw quite well. They began to walk towards the entrance of the tunnel. One by onethey climbed into it. George first with Timmy. She dared not let his collar go for an instant. Afew paces behind them came Lou with his revolver, and Dan with a couple of big sacks.
The children were made to walk right past the shelf on which were the hidden goods.
Then Lou sat down in the tunnel, his torch switched on fully so that he could pick out each child.
He still pointed his revolver at Timmy.
'Now we'll get on,' he said to Tiger Dan. 'You know what to do. Get on with it.'
Tiger Dan began to stuff the things into one of the big sacks he had brought. He staggered offwith it. He came back in about ten minutes and filled the other sack. It was plain that the menmeant to take everything away this time.
'Thought you'd made a very fine discovery, didn't you?' said Lou, mockingly, to the children.
'Ho, yes - very smart you were! See what happens to little smarties like you - you're prisoners -and here you'll stay for two or three days!'
'What do you mean?' said Julian, in alarm. 'Surely you wouldn't leave us here to starve?'
'Not to starve. We're too fond of you,' grinned Lou. 'We'll chuck you down some food into thetunnel. And in two or three days maybe someone will come and rescue you.'
Julian wished desperately that Pongo would bring help before Lou and Dan finished theirbusiness in the tunnel and went, leaving them prisoners. He watched Tiger Dan, workingquickly, packing everything, carrying it off, coming back again, and packing feverishly oncemore. Lou sat still with his torch and revolver, enjoying the scared faces of the girls and Nobby.
Julian and Dick put on a brave show which they were far from feeling.
Tiger Dan staggered away with another sackful. But he hadn't been gone for more than half aminute before a wail echoed through the tunnel.
'Lou! Help! Help! Something's attacking me! HELP.'
Lou rose up and went swiftly down the tunnel. 'It's Pongo, I bet it's old Pongo,' said Julianthrilled.
20.


































































Chapter Twenty-One DICK HAS A GREAT IDEA!
Chapter Twenty-One DICK HAS A GREAT IDEA!
'Listen,' said Dick, in an urgent voice. 'It may be Pongo by himself - he may not have gone backto the camp at all - he may have wandered about and at last gone down the entrance-hole by thecaravans, and come up behind Tiger Dan. If so he won't have much chance because Lou's got agun and will shoot him. And we shan't be rescued. So I'm going to slip down the tunnel whilethere's a chance and hide in the big cave.'
'What good will that do?' said Julian.
'Well, idiot, I may be able to slip down into the passage that leads to the entrance-hole and hopout without the others seeing me,' said Dick, getting up. 'Then I can fetch help, see? You'd betterall clear off somewhere and hide - find a good place, Julian, in case the men come after youwhen they find one of us is gone. Go on.'
Without another word the boy began to walk down the tunnel, past the rocky shelf on which nowvery few goods were left, and then came to the enormous cave.
Here there was a great noise going on, for Pongo appeared to have got hold of both men at once!
Their torches were out, and Lou did not dare to shoot for fear of hurting Dan. Dick could seevery little of this; he could only hear snarlings and shouting. He took a wide course round theheaving heap on the floor and made his way as quickly as he could in the dark to where hethought the hole was that led down into the first passage. He had to go carefully for fear offalling down it. He found it at last and let himself down into the cave below, and then, thinking itsafe to switch on his torch in the passage he flashed it in front of him to show him the way.
It wasn't long before he was out of the hole and was speeding round the caravans. Then hestopped. A thought struck him. He could fetch help all right - but the men would be gone bythen! They had laid their plans for a getaway with all the goods; there was no doubt about that.
Suppose he put the boards over the hole, ramming them in with all his strength, and then rolledsome heavy stones on top? He couldn't move the caravan over the boards, for it was far tooheavy for a boy to push. But heavy stones would probably do the trick. The men would imaginethat it was the caravan overhead again!
In great excitement Dick put back the boards, lugging them into place, panting and puffing. Thenhe flashed his torch round for stones. There were several small rocks nearby. He could not lift97
them, but he managed to roll them to the boards. Plonk! They went on to them one by one. Nownobody could move the boards at all.
'I know I've shut the others in with the men,' thought Dick. 'But I hope Julian will find a very safehiding-place just for a time. Gosh, I'm hot! Now, down the hill I go - and I hope I don't lose myway in the darkness!'
Down below, the two men had at last freed themselves from the angry chimpanzee. They werebadly bitten and mauled, but Pongo was not as strong and savage as usual because of his badhead-wound. The men were able to drive him off at last, and he went limping in the direction ofthe tunnel, sniffing out the children.
He would certainly have been shot if Lou could have found his revolver quickly enough. But hecould not find it in the dark. He felt about for his torch, and found that although it was damaged,he could still put on the light by knocking it once or twice on the ground. He shone it on to Dan.
'We ought to have looked out for that ape when we saw he was gone,' growled Dan. 'He hadbitten his rope through. We might have known he was somewhere about. He nearly did for me,leaping on me like that out of the darkness. It was lucky he flung himself on to my sack and notme.'
'Let's get the last of the things and clear out,' said Lou, who was badly shaken up. 'There's onlyone more load. We'll get back to the tunnel, scare the life out of those kids once more, shootPongo if we can, and then clear out. We'll chuck a few tins of food down the hole and then closeit up.'
'I'm not going to risk meeting that chimp again,' said Dan. 'We'll leave the rest of the things.
Come on. Let's go.'
Lou was not particularly anxious to see Pongo again either. Keeping his torch carefully switchedon and his revolver ready, he followed Dan to the hole that led down to the first cave. Down theywent, and then along the passage, eager to get out into the night and go with their wagon downthe track.
They got a terrible shock when they found that the hole was closed. Lou shone his torchupwards, and gazed in amazement at the underside of the boards. Someone had put them backinto place again. They were prisoners now!
98
Tiger Dan went mad. One of his furious rages overtook him, and he hammered against thoseboards like a mad-man. But the heavy stones held them down, and the raging man dropped downbeside Lou.
'Can't budge the boards! Someone must have put the caravan overhead again. We're prisoners!'
'But who's made us prisoners? Who's put back those boards?' shouted Lou, almost beside himselfwith fury. 'Could those kids have slipped by us when we were having that fight with the chimp?'
'We'll go and see if the kids are still there,' said Tiger Dan, grimly. 'We'll find out. We'll makethem very, very sorry for themselves. Come on.'
The two men went back again to the tunnel. The children were not there. Julian had taken Dick'sadvice and had gone off to try and find a good hiding-place. He had suddenly thought thatperhaps Dick might get the idea of shutting up the entrance-hole - in which case the two menwould certainly be furious!
So up the tunnel the children went, and into the cave with the stream. It seemed impossible tofind any hiding-place there at all.
'I don't see where we can hide,' said Julian, feeling rather desperate. 'It's no good wading downthat stream again - we shall only get wet and cold - and we have no escape from there at all if themen should come after us!'
'I can hear something,' said George, suddenly. 'Put your light out, Julian - quick!'
The torch was snapped off, and the children waited in the darkness. Timmy didn't growl. InsteadGeorge felt that he was wagging his tail.
'It's someone friendly,' she whispered. 'Over there. Perhaps it's Pongo. Put the torch on again.'
The light flashed out, and picked out the chimpanzee, who was coming towards them across thecave. Nobby gave a cry of joy.
'Here's old Pongo again!' he said. 'Pongo, did you go to the camp? Did you bring help?'
'No - he hasn't been down to the camp,' said Julian, his eyes catching sight of the note still tiedround the chimpanzee's neck. There's our letter still on him. Blow!'
'He's clever - but not clever enough to understand a difficult errand like that,' said George.
'Oh, Pongo - and we were depending on you! Never mind - perhaps Dick will escape and bringhelp. Julian, where shall we hide?'
'Up the stream?' suddenly said Anne. 'We've tried going down it. But we haven't tried going upit. Do you think it would be any good?'
99
'We could see,' said Julian, doubtfully. He didn't like this business of wading through water thatmight suddenly get deep. 'I'll shine my torch up the stream and see what it looks like.'
He went to the stream and shone his light up the tunnel from which it came. 'It seems as if wemight walk along the ledge beside it,' he said. 'But we'd have to bend almost double - and thewater runs so fast just here we must be careful not to slip and fall in.'
'I'll go first,' said Nobby. 'You go last, Julian. The girls can go in the middle with Pongo andTimmy.'
He stepped on to the narrow ledge inside the rocky tunnel, just above the rushing water. Thencame Pongo. Then Anne, then George and Timmy - and last of all Julian.
But just as Julian was disappearing, the two men came into the cave, and by chance Lou's torchshone right on to the vanishing Julian. He gave a yell.
'There's one of them - look, over there! Come on!'
The men ran to where the stream came out of the tunnel, and Lou shone his torch up it. He sawthe line of children, with Julian last of all. He grabbed hold of the boy and pulled him back.
Anne yelled when she saw Julian being pulled back. Nobby had a dreadful shock. Timmygrowled ferociously, and Pongo made a most peculiar noise.
'Now look here,' came Lou's voice, 'I've got a gun, and I'm going to shoot that dog and thatchimp if they so much as put their noses out of here. So hang on to them if you want to save theirlives!'
He passed Julian to Tiger Dan, who gripped the boy firmly by the collar. Lou shone his torch upthe tunnel again to count the children. 'Ho, there's Nobby,' he said. 'You come on out here,Nobby.'
'If I do, the chimp will come out too,' said Nobby. 'You know that. And he may get you beforeyou get him!'
Lou thought about that. He was afraid of the big chimpanzee. 'You stay up there with him, then,'
he said. 'And the girl can stay with you, holding the dog. But the other boy can come out here.'
He thought that George was a boy. George didn't mind. She liked people to think she was a boy.
She answered at once.
'I can't come. If I do the dog will follow me, and I'm not going to have him shot.'
100
'You come on out,' said Lou, threateningly. 'I'm going to show you two boys what happens tokids who keep spying and interfering. Nobby knows what happens, don't you, Nobby? He's hadhis lesson. And you two boys are going to have yours, too.'
Dan called to him. There ought to be another girl there, Lou. I thought Nobby said there weretwo boys and two girls. Where's the other girl?'
'Gone further up the tunnel, I suppose,' said Lou, trying to see. 'Now, you boy - come on out!'
Anne began to cry. 'Don't go, George; don't go. They'll hurt you. Tell them you're a . . .'
'Shut up,' said George, fiercely. She added, in a whisper: 'If I say I'm a girl they'll know Dick ismissing, and will be all the angrier. Hang on to Timmy.'
Anne clutched Timmy's collar in her trembling hand. George began to walk back to the cave. ButJulian was not going to let George be hurt. She might like to think of herself as a boy, but hewasn't going to let her be treated like one. He began to struggle.
Lou caught hold of George as she came out of the tunnel - and at the same moment Julianmanaged to kick high in the air, and knocked Lou's torch right out of his hand. It flew up into theroof of the cave and fell somewhere with a crash. It went out. Now the cave was in darkness.
'Get back into the tunnel, George, with Anne,' yelled Julian. 'Timmy, Timmy, come on! Pongo,come here!'
'I don't want Timmy to be shot!' cried out George, in terror, as the dog shot past her into the cave.
Even as she spoke a shot rang out. It was Lou, shooting blindly at where he thought Timmy was.
George screamed.
'Oh, Timmy, Timmy! You're not hurt, are you?'
21.


































90

























Chapter Twenty-Two THE END OF THE ADVENTURE
Chapter Twenty-Two THE END OF THE ADVENTURE
No, Timmy wasn't hurt. The bullet zipped past his head and struck the wall of the cave. Timmywent for Lou's legs. Down went the man with a crash and a yell, and the revolver flew out of hishand. Julian heard it slithering across the floor of the cave, and he was very thankful.
'Put on your torch, George, quickly!' he yelled. 'We must see what we're doing. Goodness, here'sPongo now!'
Tiger Dan gave a yell of fright when the torch flashed on and he saw the chimpanzee makingstraight for him. He dealt the ape a smashing blow on the face that knocked him down, and thenturned to run. Lou was trying to keep Timmy off his throat, kicking frantically at the excited dog.
Dan ran to the tunnel - and then stopped in astonishment. Four burly policemen were pushingtheir way out of the tunnel, led by Dick! One of them carried a revolver in his hand. Dan put hishands up at once.
'Timmy! Come off!' commanded George, seeing that there was now no need for the dog'sdelighted help. Timmy gave her a reproachful glance that said: 'Mistress! I'm really enjoyingmyself! Let me eat him all up!'
Then the dog caught sight of the four policemen and yelped furiously. More enemies! He wouldeat the lot.
'What's all this going on?' said the first man, who was an Inspector. 'Get up, you on the floor. Goon, get up!'
Lou got up with great difficulty. Timmy had nipped him in various places. His hair was over hiseyes, his clothes were torn. He stared at the policemen, his mouth open in the utmost surprise.
How had they come here? Then he saw Dick.
'So one of you kids slipped out - and shut the boards on us!' he said, savagely. 'I might haveguessed. You . . .'
'Hold your tongue, Lewis Allburg,' rapped out the Inspector. 'You can talk when we tell you.
You'll have quite a lot of talking to do, to explain some of the things we've heard about you.'
'Dick! How did you get here so soon?' cried Julian, going over to his brother. 'I didn't expect youfor hours! Surely you didn't go all the way to the town and back?'
102
'No. I shot off to the farm, woke up the Mackies, used their telephone and got the police up heredouble-quick in their car,' said Dick, grinning. 'Everyone all right? Where's Anne? And Nobby?'
'There they are - just coming out of the tunnel, upstream,' said Julian, and swung his torch round.
Dick saw Anne's white, scared face, and went over to her.
'It's all right,' he said. 'The adventure is over, Anne! You can smile again!'
Anne gave a watery sort of smile. Pongo took her hand and made little affectionate noises, andthat made her smile a little more. George called Timmy to her, afraid that he might take a last nipat Lou.
Lou swung round and stared at her. Then he looked at Dick and Julian. Then at Anne.
'So there was only one girl!' he said. 'What did you want to tell me there were two boys and twogirls for?' he said to Nobby.
'Because there were,' answered Nobby. He pointed to George. 'She's a girl, though she looks likea boy. And she's as good as a boy any day.'
George felt proud. She stared defiantly at Lou. He was now in the grip of a stout policeman, andTiger Dan was being hustled off by two more.
'I think we'll leave this rather gloomy place,' said the Inspector, putting away the notebook hehad been hastily scribbling in. 'Quick march!'
Julian led the way down the tunnel. He pointed out the shelf where the men had stored theirthings, and the Inspector collected the few things that were still left. Then on they went, TigerDan muttering and growling to himself.
'Will they go to prison?' whispered Anne to Dick.
'You bet,' said Dick. That's where they ought to have gone long ago. Their burglaries have beenworrying the police for four years!'
Out of the tunnel and into the cave with gleaming walls. Then down the hole and into the smallcave and along the narrow passage to the entrance-hole. Stars glittered over the black hole, andthe children were very thankful to see them. They were tired of being underground!
Lou and Dan did not have a very comfortable journey along the tunnels and passages, for theirguards had a very firm hold of them indeed. Once out in the open they were handcuffed and putinto the large police car that stood a little way down the track.
'What are you children going to do?' asked the big Inspector, who was now at the wheel of thecar. 'Hadn't you better come down into the town with us after this disturbing adventure?'
103
'Oh, no, thanks,' said Julian politely. 'We're quite used to adventures. We've had plenty, youknow. We shall be all right here with Timmy and Pongo.'
'Well, I can't say I'd like a chimpanzee for company myself,' said the Inspector. 'We'll be up herein the morning, looking round and asking a few questions, which I'm sure you'll be pleased toanswer. And many thanks for your help in capturing two dangerous thieves!'
'What about the wagon of goods?' asked Dick. 'Are you going to leave it up here? It's got lots ofvaluables in it.'
'Oh, one of the men is driving it down,' said the Inspector, nodding towards a policeman, whostood near by. 'He'll follow us. He can drive a horse all right. Well, look after yourselves. Seeyou tomorrow!'
The car started up suddenly. The Inspector put her into gear, took off the brake and the car slidquietly down the hill, following the winding track. The policeman with the wagon followedslowly, clicking to the horse, which didn't seem at all surprised to have a new driver.
'Well, that's that!' said Julian thankfully. 'I must say we were well out of that. Gosh, Dick, I wasglad to see you back with those bobbies so quickly. That was a brain wave of yours to telephonefrom the farm.'
Dick suddenly yawned. 'It must be frightfully late!' he said. 'Long past the middle of the night.
But I'm so fearfully hungry that I simply must have something to eat before I fall into my bunk!'
'Got anything, Anne?' asked Julian.
Anne brightened up at once. 'I'll see,' she said. 'I can find something, I'm sure!'
And she did, of course. She opened two tins of sardines and made sandwiches, and she openedtwo tins of peaches, so they had a very nice meal in the middle of the night! They ate it sitting onthe floor of George's caravan. Pongo had as good a meal as anyone, and Timmy crunched at oneof his bones.
It didn't take them long to go to sleep that night. In fact they were all so sleepy when they hadfinished their meal that nobody undressed! They clambered into the bunks just as they were andfell asleep at once. Nobby curled up with Pongo, and Timmy, as usual, was on George's feet.
Peace reigned in the caravans - and tonight no one came to disturb them!
All the children slept very late the next morning. They were awakened by a loud knocking onJulian's caravan. He woke up with a jump and yelled out:
'Yes! Who is it?'
104
'It's us,' said a familiar voice, and the door opened. Farmer Mackie and his wife peeped in,looking rather anxious.
'We wondered what had happened,' said the farmer. 'You rushed out of the farmhouse when youhad used the phone last night and didn't come back.'
'I ought to have slipped back and told you,' said Dick, sitting up with his hair over his eyes. Hepushed it back. 'But I forgot. The police went down into the hills with us and got the two men.
They're well-known burglars. The police got all the goods, too. It was a very thrilling night.
Thanks most awfully for letting me use the 'phone.'
'You're very welcome,' said Mrs Mackie. 'And look - I've brought you some food.'
She had two baskets stacked with good things. Dick felt wide awake and very hungry when hesaw them. 'Oh, thanks,' he said gratefully. 'You are a good sort!'
Nobby and Pongo suddenly uncurled themselves from their pile of rugs, and Mrs Mackie gave asqueal.
'Land-snakes, what's that? A monkey?'
'No, an ape, Mam,' said Nobby politely. 'He won't hurt you. Hi, take your hand out of thatbasket!'
Pongo, who had been hoping to find a little titbit unnoticed, covered his face with his hairy pawand looked through his fingers at Mrs Mackie.
'Look at that now - he's like a naughty child!' said Mrs Mackie. 'Isn't he, Ted?'
'He is that,' said the farmer. 'Queer sort of bedfellow, I must say!'
'Well, I must be getting along,' said Mrs Mackie, nodding and smiling at George and Anne, whohad now come out of their caravan with Timmy to see who the visitors were. 'You come along tothe farm if you want anything. We'll be right pleased to see you.'
'Aren't they nice?' said Anne as the two farm-folk went down the cart-track. 'And oh, mygoodness - what a breakfast we're going to have! Cold bacon - tomatoes - fresh radishes - curlylettuces - and who wants new honey?'
'Marvellous!' said Julian. 'Come on - let us have it now, before we clean up.'
But Anne made them wash and tidy themselves first! 'You'll enjoy it much more if you're clean,'
she said. 'We all look as black as sweeps! I'll give you five minutes - then you can come to aperfectly wonderful breakfast!'
105
'All right, Ma!' grinned Nobby, and he went off with the others to wash at the spring. Then backthey all went to the sunny ledge to feast on the good things kind Mrs Mackie had provided.
22.

































12
























Chapter Twenty-Three GOOD-BYE, NOBBY - GOOD-BYE, CARAVANNERS!
Chapter Twenty-Three GOOD-BYE, NOBBY - GOOD-BYE, CARAVANNERS!
Before they had finished their breakfast the Inspector came roaring up the track in his powerfulpolice car. There was one sharp-eyed policeman with him to take down notes.
'Hallo, hallo!' said the Inspector, eyeing the good things set out on the ledge. 'You seem to doyourselves well, I must say!'
'Have some new bread and honey?' said Anne in her best manner. 'Do! There's plenty!'
'Thanks,' said the Inspector, and sat down with the children. The other policeman wanderedround the caravans, examining everything. The Inspector munched away at honey and bread, andthe children talked to him, telling him all about their extraordinary adventure.
'It must have been a most unpleasant shock for those two fellows when they found that yourcaravan was immediately over the entrance to the place where they hid their stolen goods,' saidthe Inspector. 'Most unpleasant.'
'Have you examined the goods?' asked Dick eagerly. 'Are they very valuable?'
'Priceless,' answered the Inspector, taking another bit of bread and dabbing it thickly with honey.
'Quite priceless. Those rogues apparently stole goods they knew to be of great value, hid themhere for a year or two till the hue and cry had died down, then got them out and quietly disposedof them to friends in Holland and Belgium.'
'Tiger Dan used to act in circuses in Holland,' said Nobby. 'He often told me about them. He hadfriends all over Europe - people in the circus line, you know.'
'Yes. It was easy for him to dispose of his goods abroad,' said the Inspector. 'He planned to goacross to Holland today, you know - got everything ready with Lou - or, to give him the rightname, Lewis Allburg - and was going to sell most of those things. You just saved them in time!'
'What a bit of luck!' said George. They almost got away with it. If Dick hadn't managed to slipout when Pongo was attacking them, we'd still have been prisoners down in the hill, and Lou andDan would have been half-way to Holland!'
106
'Smart bit of work you children did,' said the Inspector approvingly, and looked longingly at thehoney-pot. That's fine honey, I must buy some from Mrs Mackie.'
'Have some more,' said Anne, remembering her manners. 'Do. We've got another loaf.'
'Well, I will,' said the Inspector, and took another slice of bread, spreading it with the yellowhoney. It looked as if there wouldn't even be enough left for Pongo to lick out! Anne thought itwas nice to see a grown-up enjoying bread and honey as much as children did.
'You know, that fellow Lou did some very remarkable burglaries,' said the Inspector. 'Once hegot across from the third floor of one house to the third floor of another across the street - andnobody knows how!'
'That would be easy for Lou,' said Nobby, suddenly losing his fear of the big Inspector. 'He'd justthrow a wire rope across, lasso something with the end of it, top of a gutter-pipe, perhaps, drawtight, and walk across! He's wonderful on the tight-rope. There ain't nothing he can't do on thetight-rope.'
'Yes - that's probably what he did,' said the Inspector. 'Never thought of that! No, thanks, I reallywon't have any more honey. That chimpanzee will eat me if I don't leave some for him to lickout!'
Pongo took away the jar, sat himself down behind one of the caravans, and put a large pinktongue into the remains of the honey. When Timmy came running up to see what he had got,Pongo held the jar high above his head and chattered at him.
'Yarra-yarra-yarra-yarra!' he said. Timmy looked rather surprised and went back to George. Shewas listening with great interest to what the Inspector had to tell them about the undergroundcaves.
They're very old,' he said. The entrance to them used to be some way down the hill, but there wasa landslide and it was blocked up. Nobody bothered to unblock it because the caves were notparticularly interesting.'
'Oh, but they are,' said Anne, 'especially the one with the gleaming walls.'
'Well, I imagine that quite by accident one day Dan and Lou found another way in,' said theInspector. The way you know - a hole going down into the hill. They must have thought what afine hiding-place it would make for any stolen goods - perfectly safe, perfectly dry, and quitenear the camping-place here each year. What could be better?'
107
'And I suppose they would have gone on burgling for years and hiding the stuff if we hadn't justhappened to put our caravan over the very spot!' said Julian. 'What a bit of bad luck for them!'
'And what a bit of good luck for us!' said the Inspector. 'We did suspect those two, you know,and once or twice we raided the circus to try and find the goods - but they must always have gotwarning of our coming and got them away in time - up here!'
'Have you been down to the camp, mister?' asked Nobby suddenly.
The Inspector nodded. 'Oh, yes. We've been down already this morning - seen everyone andquestioned them. We created quite a stir.'
Nobby looked gloomy.
'What's the matter, Nobby?' said Anne.
'I shan't half cop it when I get back to the camp,' said Nobby. They'll say it's all my fault thecoppers going there. We don't like the bobbies round the camp. I shall get into a whole lot oftrouble when I go back. I don't want to go back.'
Nobody said anything. They all wondered what would happen to poor Nobby now his Uncle Danwas in prison.
Then Anne asked him: 'Who will you live with now in the camp. Nobby?'
'Oh, somebody will take me in and work me hard,' said Nobby. 'I wouldn't mind if I could bewith the horses - but Rossy won't let me. I know that. If I could be with horses I'd be happy. Ilove them and they understand me all right.'
'How old are you, Nobby?' asked the Inspector, joining in the talk. 'Oughtn't you to be going toschool?'
'Never been in my life, mister,' said Nobby. 'I'm just over fourteen, so I reckon I never will gonow!'
He grinned. He didn't look fourteen. He seemed more like twelve by his size. Then he lookedsolemn again.
'Reckon I won't go down to the camp today,' he said. 'I'll be proper set on by them all - about yougoing there and snooping round like. And Mr Gorgio, he won't like losing his best clown andbest acrobat!'
'You can stay with us as long as you like,' said Julian. 'We'll be here a bit longer, anyway.'
But he was wrong. Just after the Inspector had left, taking his policeman with him, Mrs Mackiecame hurrying up to them with a little orange envelope in her hand.
108
'The telegraph boy's just been up,' she said. 'He was looking for you. He left this telegram foryou. I hope it's not bad news.'
Julian tore the envelope open and read the telegram out loud.
'AMAZED TO GET YOUR LETTER ABOUT THE EXTRAORDINARY HAPPENINGS YOUDESCRIBE. THEY SOUND DANGEROUS. COME HOME AT ONCE. DADDY.'
'Oh dear,' said Anne. 'Now we shall have to leave. What a pity!'
'I'd better go down to the town and telephone Daddy and tell him we're all right,' said Julian.
'You can 'phone from my house,' said Mrs Mackie, so Julian thought he would. They talked asthey went along and suddenly a bright idea struck Julian.
'I say - I suppose Farmer Mackie doesn't want anyone to help him with his horses, does he?' heasked. 'He wouldn't want a boy who really loves and understands them and would work hard andwell?'
'Well, now, I dare say he would,' said Mrs Mackie. 'He's a bit short-handed now. He was sayingthe other day he could do with a good lad, just leaving school.'
'Oh, do you think he'd try our friend Nobby from the circus camp?' said Julian. 'He's mad onhorses. He can do anything with them. And he's been used to working very hard. I'm sure he'd dowell.'
Before Julian had left the farmhouse after telephoning to his amazed parents, he had had a longtalk with Farmer Mackie - and now he was running back with the good news to the caravans.
'Nobby!' he shouted as he got near. 'Nobby! How would you like to go and work for FarmerMackie and help with the horses? He says you can start tomorrow if you like - and live at thefarm!'
'Jumping Jiminy!' said Nobby, looking startled and disbelieving. 'At the farm? Work with thehorses? Coo - I wouldn't half like that. But Farmer Mackie wouldn't have the likes of me.'
'He will. He says he'll try you,' said Julian. 'We've got to start back home tomorrow, and you canbe with us till then. You don't need to go back to the camp at all.'
'Well - but what about Growler?' said Nobby. 'I'd have to have him with me. He's my dog. Iexpect poor old Barker's dead. Would the farmer mind me having a dog?'
'I shouldn't think so,' said Julian. 'Well, you'll have to go down to the camp, I suppose, to collectyour few things - and to get Growler. Better go now, Nobby, and then you'll have the rest of theday with us.'
109
Nobby went off, his face shining with delight. 'Well, I never!' he kept saying to himself. 'Well, Inever did! Dan and Lou gone, so they'll never hurt me again - and me not going to live in thecamp any more - and going to have charge of them fine farm horses. Well, I never!'
The children had said good-bye to Pongo because he had to go back with Nobby to the camp. Hebelonged to Mr Gorgio, and Nobby could not possibly keep him. Anyway, it was certain thateven if he could have kept him, Mrs Mackie wouldn't have let him live at the farm.
Pongo shook hands gravely with each one of them, even with Timmy. He seemed to know it wasgood-bye. The children were really sorry to see the comical chimpanzee go. He had shared intheir adventure with them and seemed much more like a human being than an animal.
When he had gone down the hill a little way he ran back to Anne. He put his arms round her andgave her a gentle squeeze, as if to say: 'You're all nice, the lot of you, but little Anne's the nicest!'
'Oh, Pongo, you're really a dear!' said Anne, and gave him a tomato. He ran off with it, leapinghigh for joy.
The children cleared up everything, put the breakfast things away, and cleaned the caravans,ready for starting off the next day. At dinner-time they looked out for Nobby. Surely he shouldbe back soon?
They heard him whistling as he came up the track. He carried a bundle on his back. Round hisfeet ran two dogs. Two!
'Why - one of them is Barker!' shouted George in delight. 'He must have got better! How simplymarvellous!'
Nobby came up, grinning. They all crowded round him, asking about Barker.
'Yes, it's fine, isn't it?' said Nobby, putting down his bundle of belongings. 'Lucilla dosed him allright. He almost died - then he started to wriggle a bit, she said, and the next she knew he was aslively as could be - bit weak on his legs at first - but he's fine this morning.'
Certainly there didn't seem anything wrong with Barker. He and Growler sniffed round Timmy,their tails wagging fast. Timmy stood towering above them, but his tail wagged, too, so Barkerand Growler knew he was friendly.
'I was lucky,' said Nobby. 'I only spoke to Lucilla and Larry. Mr Gorgio has gone off to answersome questions at the police station, and so have some of the others. So I just told Larry to tellMr Gorgio I was leaving, and I got my things and hopped it.'
'Well, now we can really enjoy our last day,' said Julian. 'Everybody's happy!'
110
And they did enjoy that last day. They went down to the lake and bathed. They had a finefarmhouse tea at Mrs Mackie's, by special invitation. They had a picnic supper on the rockyledge, with the three dogs rolling over and over in play. Nobby felt sad to think he would so soonsay good-bye to his 'posh' friends - but he couldn't help feeling proud and pleased to have a finejob of his own on the farm - with the horses he loved so much.
Nobby, Barker, Growler, Farmer Mackie and his wife all stood on the cart-track to wave good-bye to the two caravans the next morning.
'Good-bye!' yelled Nobby. 'Good luck! See you again some time!'
'Good-bye!' shouted the others. 'Give our love to Pongo when you see him.'
'Woof! woof!' barked Timmy, but only Barker and Growler knew what that meant. It meant,'Shake paws with Pongo for me!'
Good-bye, five caravanners . . . till your next exciting adventure!
THE END
23.

































14
12










































