Chapter One CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS
Chapter One CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS
　　IT was the last week of the Christmas term, and all the girls at Gaylands School were lookingforward to the Christmas holidays. Anne sat down at the breakfast-table and picked up a letteraddressed to her.
　　'Hallo, look at this!' she said to her cousin Georgina, who was sitting beside her. 'A letter from Daddy- and I only had one from him and Mummy yesterday.'
　　'I hope it's not bad news,' said George, She would not allow anyone to call her Georgina, and noweven the mistresses called her George. She really was very like a boy with her short curly hair, andher boyish ways. She looked anxiously at Anne as her cousin read the letter.
　　'Oh, George - we can't go home for the holidays!' said Anne, with tears in her eyes. 'Mummy's gotscarlet fever and Daddy is in quarantine for it - so they can't have us back. Isn't it just too bad?'
　　'Oh, I am sorry,' said George. She was just as disappointed for herself as for Anne, because Anne'smother had invited George, and her dog Timothy to stay for the Christmas holidays with them. Shehad been promised many things she had never seen before - the pantomime, and the circus - and a bigparty with a fine Christmas tree! Now it wouldn't happen.
　　'Whatever will the two boys say?' said Anne, thinking of Julian and Dick, her two brothers. 'Theywon't be able to go home either.'
　　'Well - what are you going to do for the holidays then?' asked George. 'Won't you come and stay atKirrin Cottage with me? I'm sure my mother would love to have you again. We had such fun whenyou came to stay for the summer holls,'
　　'Wait a minute - let me finish the letter and see what Daddy says, said Anne, picking up the noteagain. 'Poor Mummy - I do hope she isn't feeling very ill.'
　　She read a few more lines and then gave such a delighted exclamation that George and the other girlswaited impatiently for her to explain.
　　'George! We are to come to you again - but oh blow, blow, blow! - we've got to have a tutor for theholls, partly to look after us so that your mother doesn't have too much bother with us, and partlybecause both Julian and Dick have been ill with 'flu twice this term, and have got behind in theirwork.'
　　2
　　'A tutor! How sickening! That means I'll have to do lessons too, I'll bet!' said George, in dismay.
　　'When my mother and father see my report I guess they'll find out how little I know. After all, this isthe first time I've ever been to a proper school, and there are heaps of things I don't know.'
　　'What horrid holls they'll be, if we have a tutor running after us all the time,' said Anne, gloomily. 'Iexpect I'll have quite a good report, because I've done well in the exams - but it won't be any fun forme not doing lessons with you three in the holls. Though, of course, I could go off with Timothy, Isuppose. He won't be doing lessons!'
　　'Yes, he will,' said George, at once. She could not bear the idea of her beloved dog Timothy going offeach morning with Anne, whilst she, George, sat and worked hard with Julian and Dick.
　　'Timothy can't do lessons, don't be silly, George,' said Anne.
　　'He can sit under my feet whilst I'm doing them,' said George. 'It will be a great help to feel him there.
　　For goodness' sake eat up your sausages, Anne. We've all nearly finished. The bell will go in a minuteand you won't have had any breakfast.' -
　　'I am glad Mummy isn't very bad,' said Anne, hurriedly finishing her letter. 'Daddy says he's writtento Dick and Julian - and to your father to ask him to engage a tutor for us. Oh dash - this is an awfuldisappointment, isn't it? I don't mean I shan't enjoy going to Kirrin Cottage again -and seeing Kirrin Island - but after all there are no pantomimes or circuses or parties to look forwardto at Kirrin.'
　　The end of the term came quickly. Anne and George packed up their trunks, and put on the labels,enjoying the noise and excitement of the last two days. The big school coaches rolled up to the door,and the girls clambered in.
　　'Off to Kirrin again!' said Anne. 'Come on, Timothy darling, you can sit between me and George.'
　　Gaylands School allowed the children to keep their own pets, and Timothy, George's big mongreldog, had been a great success. Except for the time when he had run after the dustman, and draggedthe dustbin away from him, all the way up the school grounds and into George's classroom, he hadreally behaved extremely well.
　　'I'm sure you'll have a good report, Tim,' said George, giving the dog a hug. 'We're going home again.
　　Will you like that?'
　　3
　　'Woof,' said Tim, in his deep voice. He stood up, wagging his tail, and there was a squeal from theseat behind.
　　'George! Make Tim sit down. He's wagging my hat off!'
　　It was not very long before the two girls and Timothy were in London, being put into the train forKirrin.
　　'I do wish the boys broke up today too,' sighed Anne. 'Then we could all have gone down to Kirrintogether. That would have been fun.'
　　Julian and Dick broke up the next day and were to join the girls then at Kirrin Cottage. Anne wasvery much looking forward to seeing them again. A term was a long time to be away from oneanother. She had been glad to have her cousin George with her. The three of them had stayed withGeorge in the summer, and had had some exciting adventures together on the little island off thecoast. An old castle stood on the island and in the dungeons the children had made all kinds ofwonderful discoveries.
　　'It will be lovely to go across to Kirrin Island again, George,' said Anne, as the train sped off towardsthe west.
　　'We shan't be able to,' said George. 'The sea is terribly rough round the island in the winter. It wouldbe too dangerous to try and row there.'
　　'Oh, what a pity,' said Anne disappointed. 'I was looking forward to some more adventures there.'
　　'There won't be any adventures at Kirrin in the winter,' said George. 'It's cold down there - and whenit snows we sometimes get frozen up completely - can't even walk to the village because the sea-windblows the snow-drifts so high.'
　　'Oooh - that sounds rather exciting!' said Anne.
　　'Well, it isn't really,' said George. 'It's awfully boring - nothing to do but sit at home all day, or turnout with a spade and dig the snow away.'
　　It was a long time before the train reached the little station that served Kirrin. But at last it was theresteaming in slowly and stopping at the tiny platform. The two girls jumped out eagerly, and looked tosee if anyone had met them. Yes - there was George's mother!
　　'Hallo, George darling - hallo, Anne!' said George's mother, and gave both children a hug. 'Anne, I'mso sorry about your mother, but she's getting on all right, you'll be glad to know.'
　　4
　　'Oh, good!' said Anne. 'It's nice of you to have us, Aunt Fanny. We'll try and be good! What aboutUncle Quentin? Will he mind having four children in the house in the winter-time? We won't be ableto go out and leave him in peace as often as we did in the summer!'
　　George's father was a scientist, a very clever man, but rather frightening. He had little patience withchildren, and the four of them had felt very much afraid of him at times in the summer.
　　'Oh, your uncle is still working very hard at his book,' said Aunt Fanny. 'You know, he has beenworking out a secret theory - a secret idea - and putting it all into his book. He says that once it is allexplained and finished, he is to take it to some high authority, and then his idea will be used for thegood of the country.'
　　'Oh, Aunt Fanny - it does sound exciting,' said Anne. 'What's the secret?'
　　'I can't tell you that, silly child,' said her aunt, laughing. 'Why, even I myself don't know it. Comealong, now - it's cold standing here. Timothy looks very fat and well, George dear.'
　　'Oh Mother, he's had a marvellous time at school,' said George. 'He really has. He chewed up thecook's old slippers ...'
　　'And he chased the cat that lives in the stables every time he saw her,' said Anne.
　　'And he once got into the larder and ate a whole steak pie,' said George; 'and once...'
　　'Good gracious, George, I should think the school will refuse to have Timothy next term,' said hermother, in horror. 'Wasn't he well punished? I hope he was.'
　　'No - he wasn't,' said George, going rather red. 'You see, Mother, we are responsible for our pets andtheir behaviour ourselves - so if ever Timothy does anything bad I'm punished for it, because Ihaven't shut him up properly, or something like that.'
　　'Well, you must have had quite a lot of punishments then,' said her mother, as she drove the littlepony-trap along the frosty roads. 'I really think that's rather a good idea!' There was a twinkle in hereyes, as she spoke.
　　I think I'll keep on with the same idea - punish you every time Timothy misbehaves himself!'
　　The girls laughed. They felt happy and excited. Holidays were fun. Going back to Kirrin was lovely.
　　Tomorrow the boys would come - and then Christmas would be there!
　　'Good old Kirrin Cottage!' said Anne, as they came in sight of the pretty old house. 'Oh - look, there'sKirrin Island!' The two looked out to sea, where the old ruined castle stood on the little island ofKirrin - what adventures they had had there in the summer!
　　The girls went into the house. 'Quentin!' called George's mother. 'Quentin! The girls are here.'
　　5
　　Uncle Quentin came out of his study at the other side of the house. Anne thought he looked taller anddarker than ever. 'And frowner!' she said to herself. Uncle Quentin might be very clever, but Annepreferred someone jolly and smiling like her own father. She shook hands with her uncle politely, andwatched George kiss him.
　　'Well!' said Uncle Quentin to Anne. 'I hear I've got to get a tutor for you! At least, for the two boys.
　　My word, you will have to behave yourself with a tutor I can tell you!'
　　This was meant to be a joke, but it didn't sound very nice to Anne and George. People you had tobehave well with were usually very strict and tiresome. Both girls were glad when George's fatherhad gone back into his study.
　　'Your father has been working far too hard lately,' said George's mother to her. 'He is tired out.
　　Thank goodness his book is nearly finished. He had hoped to finish it by Christmas so that he couldjoin in the fun and games - but now he says he can't.'
　　'What a pity,' said Anne, politely, though secretly she thought it was a good thing. It wouldn't bemuch fun having Uncle Quentin to play charades and things like that! 'Oh, Aunt Fanny, I'm solooking forward to seeing Julian and Dick - and won't they be pleased to see Tim and George?
　　Aunt Fanny, nobody calls George Georgina at school, not even our Form mistress. I was ratherhoping they would, because I wanted to see what would happen when she refused to answer toGeorgina! George, you liked school, didn't you?"'Yes,' said George, - I did. I thought I'd hate being with a lot of others, but it's fun, after all. ButMother, you won't find my report very good, I'm afraid. There were such a lot of things I was bad atbecause I'd never done them before.'
　　'Well, you'd never been to school before!' said her mother. I'll explain it to your father if he getsupset. Now go along and get ready for a late tea. You must be very hungry.'
　　The girls went upstairs to their little room. 'I'm glad I'm not spending my holls by myself,' saidGeorge. 'I've had much more fun since I've known you and the boys. Hie, Timothy, where have yougone?'
　　'He's gone to smell all round the house to make sure it's his proper home!' said Anne, with a giggle.
　　'He wants to know if the kitchen smells the same - and the bathroom - and his basket. It must be justas exciting for him to come home for the holls as it is for us!'
　　Anne was right. Timothy was thrilled to be back again.
　　6
　　He ran round George's mother, sniffing at her legs in friendliness, pleased to see her again. He raninto the kitchen but soon came out again because someone new was there - Joanna the cook -a fat, panting person who eyed him with suspicion.
　　'You can come into this kitchen once a day for your dinner,' said Joanna. 'And that's all. I'm nothaving meat and sausages and chicken disappearing under my nose if I can help it. I know what dogsare, I do!'
　　Timothy ran into the scullery and sniffed round there. He ran into the dining-room and the sitting-room, and was pleased to find they had the same old smell. He put his nose to the door of the studywhere George's father worked, and sniffed very cautiously. He didn't mean to go in.
　　Timothy was just as wary of George's father as the others were!
　　He ran upstairs to the girls' bedroom again. Where was his basket? Ah, there it was by the window-seat. Good! That meant he was to sleep in the girls' bedroo
1.圣诞假期
　　圣诞假期
　　第一学期的最后一周，盖兰德学校的所有女孩都满心期盼着即将到来的圣诞假期。
　　安妮坐在早餐桌旁，拿出一封信。她对坐在旁边的堂姐乔治娜说：“嘿，快看！是爸爸的来信，昨天我刚收到他和妈妈的来信！”
　　“希望不是不好的消息。”乔治说。她从不让别人叫自己乔治娜，现在就连女老师们都管她叫乔治。不过那一头鬈发，外加男孩子气的秉性，说她像个男孩也不为过。安妮开始读信，乔治在一旁好奇地听着。
　　安妮快要哭了：“哦，乔治！圣诞假期我们回不了家了，妈妈得了猩红热，爸爸要被隔离起来，所以他们不能来接我们回家了，怎么会发生这样的事呢？”
　　“天哪，真遗憾！”乔治说道。她感到很沮丧，既是因为她自己，也是因为安妮。因为此前安妮的妈妈曾邀请乔治带上她的狗——蒂米去他们家共度圣诞假期，还说好去看哑剧和马戏团表演、参加圣诞派对，派对上会有一棵精美的圣诞树！现在，计划全泡汤了。
　　安妮想起她的两个哥哥——朱利安和迪克，于是说道：“他俩会有什么反应呢？他们也回不了家了。”
　　“那你打算怎么度过这个假期？”乔治问，“和我回科林庄园怎么样？我想我妈妈一定欢迎你们再来，还记得暑假时你们来做客，我们全家都很开心。”
　　安妮又拿起信：“稍等一下，让我先看完爸爸说了什么。可怜的妈妈，我希望她病得不是很重。”
　　安妮又读了几行，然后高兴地叫了一声。乔治和其他几个女孩都迫不及待地等着她解释。
　　“乔治！我们去你家！但是，哦，天哪！他们还会请一位家庭教师来辅导我们，这样范妮婶婶不用总被我们打扰，而且朱利安和迪克这学期已经被传染了两次感冒，缺了好多课。”
　　“什么！家庭教师？哦，天哪！那就意味着我在假期还要学习！”乔治语气沮丧，“要是让我爸妈看到成绩单，他们就会发现我的成绩到底有多差了。毕竟这是我第一次在正规学校学习，有很多东西我都不知道！”
　　“有个家庭教师天天跟在我们屁股后面，这得是多可怕的假期啊！”安妮的语气也很低沉，“我想我这次的考试成绩应该比较令人满意，因为我的考试题目答得还不错，但是如果你们三个都在补课，我也会无聊的。当然了，我想我可以跟蒂米出去玩，它不需要做功课！”
　　“不，它也要做功课。”乔治立刻回嘴。一想到每天清晨，最爱的蒂米跟着安妮出门了，而自己却要跟朱利安和迪克一起补课，乔治就大为光火。
　　“蒂米不会做功课，别说傻话了，乔治。”安妮说。
　　“我做功课的时候它可以趴在我脚底下啊！”乔治说，“这对我的学习也有帮助，安妮，看在上帝的分儿上，快把香肠吃了。我们都快吃完了，一会儿就打铃了，你还没吃早餐呢。”
　　“好在妈妈的病情没有那么糟，”安妮迅速读完信，“爸爸说他也会给朱利安和迪克写信，还会给你爸爸写信，拜托你爸爸帮我们找一位家庭教师。哦，天哪！这真不是什么让人高兴的事，对吧？我当然不是说不想再去科林庄园做客，也不是不想去看一下科林岛，不过在那儿可没有我们满心期待的哑剧和马戏团，以及派对了。”
　　学期很快就结束了。安妮和乔治飞快地打包好行李，贴好标签，享受着在学校里最后两天的喧闹和兴奋。那辆大马车缓缓地停在学校门口，女孩们爬上车厢。
　　“放假啦！又去科林庄园啦！”安妮说，“来，亲爱的蒂米，你可以坐在我和乔治中间。”
　　盖兰德学校允许学生养宠物，而乔治的这只大混种狗蒂米就是学校这一政策的受益者。除了那次它追着清洁工人跑，还拖着垃圾桶一路穿越操场，拖进了乔治的教室的“壮举”，蒂米在学校的表现可圈可点。
　　“蒂米，我保证你的成绩一定不错。”乔治宠溺地抱了抱蒂米，“我们要回家啦，你开心吗？”
　　“汪。”蒂米用低沉的声音回应，高兴地站了起来摇着尾巴。这时后面传来一声尖叫。
　　“乔治！快让蒂米坐下，它把我的帽子打飞了！”
　　不久，两个女孩和蒂米就到伦敦了，坐上了去往科林岛的火车。
　　“我真希望男生们今天也能离校，”安妮轻声叹息，“这样我们就可以一起出发了，那一定很有意思。”
　　朱利安和迪克第二天才放假，然后动身前往科林岛，和安妮她们会合。
　　一个学期没跟哥哥们见面，安妮翘首以待，能跟堂姐乔治待在一起，她很开心。要知道他们三兄妹暑假时就是在乔治家度过的，那时他们在这座离海岸不远的小岛上一起经历了刺激的探险之旅。
　　岛上还矗立着一座古老的城堡，孩子们在城堡的地牢里有许多奇妙的发现。
　　“乔治，如果这次我们能再到科林岛去，一定非常有意思。”安妮说道。火车一路向西飞驰着。
　　乔治说：“不行，冬天的岛上海风呼啸，大浪滔天，划船去那里实在太危险了，你最好打消这个念头。”
　　安妮略显失望：“太遗憾了！我一直期待着再去探险呢。”
　　乔治说：“冬天的岛上可没什么值得冒险的。那里只有一片肃杀的寒冷，下雪的时候，人会被冻僵，甚至不能走路去村子里，因为在海风的裹挟下，雪堆得太高了。”
　　“哦，听起来相当刺激！”安妮说道。
　　“好吧，实际上并不是你想的那样，”乔治说，“无聊得很，整天无所事事，待在家里，要么就是带上铁锹去铲雪。”
　　过了很久，火车终于到达科林庄园所在的小车站。火车缓缓地停靠在小小的站台边。两个女孩兴奋地跳下车左右张望，没错——乔治的妈妈已经在等她们了！
　　“你好啊，亲爱的乔治！你好啊，安妮！”乔治的妈妈说着拥抱了两个孩子，“安妮，听说你妈妈生病了，我很难过，但是相信你应该很高兴听到她的病情正在不断地好转。”
　　“是吗，太好了！”安妮说，“范妮婶婶，您能接待我们真的太好了，我们一定好好表现！可是昆廷叔叔呢？他不介意这段时间家里突然多了四个孩子吗？这次可不像上次是夏天，我们还能外出，可以尽量不打扰到他！”
　　乔治的爸爸是位科学家，博学多识，却很严肃。他对孩子没什么耐心，暑假那会儿，四个孩子就非常怕他。
　　“哦，你的叔叔还在非常努力地写那本新书呢。”范妮婶婶说，“他发现了一种神秘的理论——一种非常机密的构想，他要把这些东西全部写进他的书里。据他说，一旦将理论阐释清楚、完成创作，他就打算提交给一些权威人士，这样他的构想就能造福于整个国家了。”
　　“天哪，范妮婶婶，这听上去很是令人激动，是什么秘密啊？”安妮问。
　　“傻孩子，我没法告诉你，”范妮婶婶笑了起来，“因为就连我自己也没搞清楚。好了，快走吧，站在这儿太冷了。蒂米看着变胖了，对吧，我亲爱的乔治。”
　　“哦，妈妈，它在学校的生活丰富多彩，”乔治说道，“真的，它咬了厨师的旧拖鞋……”
　　“每次看到住在马厩里的那只猫，它都会去追赶。”安妮说道。
　　“一旦进了食品储藏室，它就会吃掉一整块牛排。”乔治说道，“还有一次……”
　　“我的天哪，乔治，我想下学期学校会拒收蒂米的，”范妮婶婶有些担忧，“学校罚它了吗？我希望是的。”
　　“不，并没有。”乔治脸红了，“您知道的，妈妈，主人要对宠物的表现负责，所以如果蒂米表现不好，受罚的就是我，因为我没有管好它的嘴巴，或者阻止它做那些事。”
　　“哦，那么你一定受到了很多处罚。”范妮婶婶边说边驾着那辆轻便的两轮小马车行驶在结了霜的路面上。“我觉得这主意真不错！”说话时她的眼睛里闪着光亮，“要是我，我也会采取这个方法——只要蒂米表现不好就找你算账！”
　　两个女孩笑了起来。她们感到既开心，又激动。放假是多么快乐的事情，重返科林岛也显得特别美好。明天男孩们就要加入了，之后圣诞节就要到了！
　　“美好的老科林庄园！”当她们看到那栋美丽的老房子时，安妮发出感叹，“啊，看，那是科林岛。”她和乔治望着海面，那座年久失修的城堡仍矗立在科林岛上，那里充满了夏天的冒险回忆！
　　她们一进屋，范妮婶婶就喊道：“昆廷，昆廷！乔治和安妮回来了！”
　　只见昆廷叔叔从房间另一头的书房里走出来，安妮觉得他比以前更高更黑了，而且她在心里说：“眉头皱得更深了！”昆廷叔叔一定是聪明好学的人，可安妮更喜欢自己的爸爸那样开朗爱笑的人。
　　安妮礼貌地和他握了手，看到乔治吻了昆廷叔叔。
　　昆廷叔叔对安妮说：“对了！我得给你们找个家庭教师，至少那两个男孩得补习功课。但是我可提前告诉你们呀，在老师面前可得规矩点！”
　　这本来是个玩笑，但是对乔治和安妮来说却一点也不好笑。因为需要人们毕恭毕敬对待的人通常比较严肃，让人觉得很累。看到昆廷叔叔回书房了，乔治和安妮终于松了一口气。
　　乔治的妈妈对乔治说：“你爸最近工作特别忘我，一定是累坏了。谢天谢地，他的书终于快写完了。他本打算在圣诞节前完工的，这样就能和大家一起庆祝了，可是现在他说够呛了。”
　　“那真是太可惜了！”安妮礼貌地回应，其实心里早乐开了花，跟昆廷叔叔一起玩猜字谜之类的游戏可没什么意思。她又说道：“哦，范妮婶婶，我真期待赶快见到朱利安和迪克，你说他们是不是也期待赶快见到乔治和蒂米？范妮婶婶，学校里没人敢叫乔治为‘乔治娜’，就连福尔姆小姐也不行。我本来希望能有人这么叫的，因为我想看见乔治不愿回答的样子！乔治，你一定很喜欢上学，对吗？”
　　“没错，”乔治说，“我原以为我会很讨厌和其他人待在一起，没想到却很有意思。不过妈妈，我的成绩可不理想，你要做好心理准备。有很多科目我完全不会，因为我以前根本没学过。”
　　“没关系！这是你第一次上学！如果你爸爸生气，我会跟他解释的，好了，快准备准备喝下午茶吧，你们一定饿坏了。”范妮婶婶笑着说。
　　女孩们上楼回到了自己的小房间。乔治说：“幸好不用自己度过这个假期，自从认识了你和那两个男孩，你们给我带来了很多快乐。嘿，蒂米，你跑哪儿去了？”
　　“它一定是去把所有房间都逛了一遍，确认一下这是自己的家！”安妮咯咯笑着，“它想去确认一下厨房、卫生间，还有自己的毯子是不是都在。再次回家，蒂米一定跟我们一样兴奋！”
　　安妮说得对。蒂米再次回到这里，一开始有些害怕。它围着范妮婶婶团团转，友好地嗅嗅她的腿，表示非常高兴再次回家。它跑进厨房又很快跑了出来，因为那里出现了一张陌生的面孔，那就是厨师乔安娜——一个胖胖的、有些气喘吁吁的女人，她以一种怀疑的眼神盯着蒂米。“你每天只能进厨房吃一次饭，”乔安娜说，“只能吃一次。而且我不允许肉、香肠、鸡肉这些东西在我的眼皮底下不翼而飞，我太了解你们狗的想法了，非常了解！”
　　蒂米跑进碗柜储藏室，四处嗅来嗅去，又跑进餐厅、起居室，最后它发现一切都是熟悉的味道。它把鼻子抵在昆廷叔叔工作的书房门上，小心翼翼地闻了闻，但是并不打算进去。蒂米跟其他人一样害怕昆廷叔叔。
　　它一路跑上楼，又回到乔治和安妮的房间。篮子哪儿去了？
　　哦，就在靠窗的座位旁边。太好了！这说明它这次也可以住在乔治的房间里！蒂米蜷缩起身子，趴在篮子里，尾巴欢快地敲打着地板。
　　很明显，它在说：“回家真好，回家真好！”
Chapter Two ALL TOGETHER AGAIN
Chapter Two ALL TOGETHER AGAIN
　　THE next day the boys came back. Anne and George went to meet them with Timothy. George drovethe pony-trap, and Tim sat beside her. Anne could hardly wait for the train to stop at the station. Sheran along the platform, looking for Julian and Dick in the carriages that passed.
　　Then she saw them. They were looking out of a window at the back of the train, waving and yelling.
　　'Anne! Anne! Here we are! Hallo, George! Oh, there's Timothy!'
　　'Julian! Dick!' yelled Anne. Timothy began to bark and leap about. It was most exciting.
　　'Oh, Julian! It's lovely to see you both again!' cried Anne, giving her two brothers a hug each.
　　Timothy leapt up and licked them both. He was beside himself with joy. Now he had all the childrenaround him that he loved.
　　7
　　The three children and the dog stood happily together, all talking at once whilst the porter got theluggage out of the train. Anne suddenly remembered George. She looked round her. She wasnowhere to be seen, although she had come on the station platform with Anne.
　　'Where's old George?' said Julian. 'I saw her here when I waved out of the window.'
　　'She must have gone back to the pony-trap,' said Anne. 'Tell the porter to bring your trunks out to thetrap, Julian. Come along! We'll go and find George.'
　　George was standing by the pony, holding his head. She looked rather gloomy, Anne thought.
　　The boys went up to her.
　　'Hallo, George, old thing!' cried Julian, and gave her a hug. Dick did the same.
　　'What's up?' asked Anne, wondering at George's sudden silence.
　　'I believe George felt left-cut!' said Julian with a grin. 'Funny old Georgina!'
　　'Don't call me Georgina!' said the little girl fiercely. The boys laughed.
　　'Ah, it's the same fierce old George, all right,' said Dick, and he gave the girl a friendly slap on theshoulder. 'Oh, George - it's good to see you again. Do you remember our marvellous adventures inthe summer?'
　　George felt her awkwardness slipping away from her. She had felt left-out when she had seen thegreat welcome that the two boys gave to their small sister, but no one could sulk for long with Julianand Dick. They just wouldn't let anyone feel left-out or awkward or sulky.
　　The four children climbed into the trap. The porter heaved in the two trunks. There was only justroom for them. Timothy sat on top of the trunks, his tail wagging nineteen to the dozen, and histongue hanging out because he was panting with delight.
　　'You two girls were lucky to be able to take Tim to school with you,' said Dick, patting the big doglovingly.
　　'No pets are allowed at our school. Awfully hard on those fellows who like live things.'
　　'Thompson Minor kept white mice,' said Julian. 'And one day they escaped and met Matron round acorner of the passage. She squealed the place down.'
　　The girls laughed. The boys always had funny tales to tell when they got home.
　　'And Kennedy keeps snails,' said Dick. 'You know, snails sleep for the winter - but Kennedy kept hisin far too warm a place, and they all crawled out of their box and went up the walls. You should haveheard how we laughed when the geography master asked Thompson to point out Cape Town on themap - and there was one of the snails in the very place!'
　　8
　　Everyone laughed again. It was so good to be all together once more. They were very much of an age- Julian was twelve, George and Dick were eleven, and Anne was ten. Holidays and Christmas timewere in front of them. No wonder they laughed at everything, even the silliest little joke!
　　'It's good that Mummy is getting on all right, isn't it?' said Dick, as the pony went along the road at aspanking trot. It was disappointed not to go home, I must say - I did want to go to see Aladdin andthe Lamp, and the Circus - but still, it's good to be back at Kirrin Cottage again. I wish we could havesome more exciting adventures. Not a hope of that this time, though.'
　　'There's one snag about these holls,' said Julian. 'And that's the tutor. I hear we've got to have onebecause Dick and I missed so much school this term, and we've got to take scholarship exams nextsummer.'
　　'Yes,' said Anne. 'I wonder what he'll be like. I do hope he will be a sport. Uncle Quentin is going tochoose one today.'
　　Julian and Dick made faces at one another. They felt sure that any tutor chosen by Uncle Quentinwould be anything but a sport. Uncle Quentin's idea of a tutor would be somebody strict and gloomyand forbidding.
　　Never mind! He wouldn't come for a day or two. And he might be fun. The boys cheered up andpulled Timothy's thick coat. The dog pretended to growl and bite. He wasn't worried about tutors.
　　Lucky Timothy!
　　They all arrived at Kirrin Cottage. The boys were really pleased to see their aunt, and rather relievedwhen she said that their uncle had not yet come back.
　　'He's gone to see two or three men who have answered the advertisement for a tutor,' she said.
　　'He won't be long before he's back.'
　　'Mother, I haven't got to do lessons in the holls too, have I?' asked George. Nothing had yet been saidto her about this, and she longed to know.
　　'Oh yes, George,' said her mother. 'Your father has seen your report, and although it isn't really a badone, and we certainly didn't expect a marvellous one, still it does show that you are behind your agein some things. A little extra coaching will soon help you along.'
　　George looked gloomy. She had expected this but it was tiresome all the same. 'Anne's the only onewho won't have to do lessons,' she said.
　　9
　　I’ll do some too,' promised Anne. 'Perhaps not always, George, if it's a very fine day, for instance- but sometimes, just to keep you company.'
　　'Thanks,' said George. 'But you needn't. I shall have Timmy.'
　　George's mother looked doubtful about this. 'We'll have to see what the tutor says about that’, shesaid.
　　'Mother! If the tutor says I can't have Timothy in the room, I jolly well won't do holiday lessons!’
　　began George, fiercely.
　　Her mother laughed. 'Well, well - here's our fierce, hot-tempered George again!’ she said. 'Go along,you two boys, and wash your hands and do your hair. You seem to have collected all the smuts on therailway.'
　　The children and Timothy went upstairs. It was such fun to be five again. They always counted Timas one of themselves. He went everywhere with them, and really seemed to understand every singleword they said.
　　'I wonder what sort of a tutor Uncle Quentin will choose,' said Dick, as he scrubbed his nails. 'If onlyhe would choose the right kind - someone jolly and full of fun, who knows that holiday lessons aresickening to have, and tries to make up for them by being a sport out of lesson-time. I suppose we'llhave to work every morning.'
　　'Hurry up. I want my tea,' said Julian. 'Come on down, Dick. We'll know about the tutor soonenough.’
　　They all went down together, and sat round the table. Joanna the cook had made a lovely lot of bunsand a great big cake. There was not much left of either by the time the four children had finished!
　　Uncle Quentin returned just as they were finishing. He seemed rather pleased with himself. He shookhands with the two boys and asked them if they had had a good term.
　　'Did you get a tutor, Uncle Quentin?' asked Anne, who could see that everyone was simply burstingto know this.
　　'Ah - yes, I did,' said her uncle. He sat down, whilst Aunt Fanny poured him out a cup of tea. 'Iinterviewed three applicants, and had almost chosen the last one, when another fellow came in, all ina hurry. Said he had only just seen the advertisement, and hoped he wasn't too late.'
　　'Did you choose him?' asked Dick.
　　10
　　'I did,' said his uncle. 'He seemed a most intelligent fellow. Even knew about me and my work!
　　And he had the most wonderful letters of recommendation.'
　　'I don't think the children need to know all these details,' murmured Aunt Fanny. 'Anyway - youasked him to come?'
　　'Oh yes,' said Uncle Quentin. 'He's a good bit older than the others - they were rather young fellows -this one seems very responsible and intelligent. I'm sure you'll like him, Fanny. He'll fit in here verywell. I feel I would like to have him to talk to me sometimes in the evening.'
　　The children couldn't help feeling that the new tutor sounded rather alarming. Their uncle smiled atthe gloomy faces.
　　'You'll like Mr. Roland,' he said. 'He knows how to handle youngsters - knows he's got to be veryfirm, and to see that you know a good bit more at the end of the holidays than you did at thebeginning.'
　　This sounded even more alarming. All four children wished heartily that Aunt Fanny had been tochoose the tutor, and not Uncle Quentin.
　　'When is he coming?' asked George.
　　'Tomorrow,' said her father. 'You can all go to meet him at the station. That will be a nice welcomefor him.'
　　'We had thought of taking the bus and going to do a bit of Christmas shopping,' said Julian, seeingAnne looked very disappointed.
　　'Oh, no, you must certainly go and meet Mr. Roland,' said his uncle. 'I told him you would. And mindyou, you four - no nonsense with him! You've to do as you're told, and you must work hard with him,because your father is paying very high fees for his coaching. I'm paying a third, because I want himto coach George a little too - so George, you must do your best.'
　　'I'll try,' said George. 'If he's nice, I'll do my very best.'
　　'You'll do your best whether you think him nice or not!' said her father, frowning. 'He will arrive bythe ten-thirty train. Be sure to be there in time.'
　　'I do hope he won't be too strict, said Dick, that evening, when the five of them were alone for aminute or two. 'It's going to spoil the holls, if we have someone down on us all the time. And I dohope he'll like Timothy.
　　George looked up at once. 'Like Timothy!' she said. 'Of course he'll like Timothy! How couldn't he?’
　　11
　　'Well - your father didn't like Timothy very much last summer, said Dick. I don't see how anyonecould dislike darling Tim - but there are people who don't like dogs, you know, George.'
　　'If Mr. Roland doesn't like Timothy, I'll not do a single thing for him,' said George. 'Not one singlething!'
　　'She's gone all fierce again!' said Dick, with a laugh. 'My word - the sparks will fly if Mr. Rolanddares to dislike our Timothy!'
2.再相逢
　　再相逢
　　第二天，男孩们也放假了。安妮和乔治带着蒂米去接他们。乔治驾驶着两轮轻便马车，蒂米坐在乔治旁边。安妮已经等不及火车完全进站停稳了，她在站台上一路小跑挨节车厢寻找着朱利安和迪克。
　　在那里！朱利安和迪克从火车车尾处的一扇窗户伸出头来，不断挥手，叫着安妮：“安妮！安妮！我们在这儿！嘿，乔治！哦，蒂米也在！”
　　“朱利安！迪克！”安妮也喊着。蒂米又是大叫又是蹦跳，真是令人兴奋的一幕啊！
　　“哦，朱利安！能再见到你们真的太好了！”安妮大喊，分别拥抱了两个哥哥。蒂米也很兴奋，一蹦老高，它舔了朱利安和迪克，现在所有它爱的人都在身边了。
　　三个孩子和蒂米高兴地围成一团。在等待行李搬运工把大家的行李搬出来的间隙，他们就打开了话匣子。安妮突然想起乔治，四下寻找却不见她，真怪了，乔治明明和自己一起上了站台的。
　　朱利安说：“乔治呢？我从车窗招手时明明看见她也来了。”安妮说：“她可能回马车上去了，朱利安，你让行李搬运工把箱子送到马车上去吧。快来！我们去找乔治！”
　　乔治就在马车旁，抚摸着小马的头。安妮觉得她看上去有点沮丧，男孩们迎上前去。
　　“你好啊，乔治，老伙计！”朱利安大声说着，给了她一个大大的拥抱，迪克也是。
　　安妮对乔治突然间的沉默有些不解：“你怎么了？”
　　“我想乔治是觉得被冷落了！有趣的乔治娜！”朱利安狡黠地一笑。
　　“不准叫我乔治娜！”小女孩尖叫起来。朱利安和迪克捧腹大笑。
　　“噢，还是那个歇斯底里的乔治，好吧。”迪克说。他开玩笑似的轻轻拍了乔治的肩膀，“哦，乔治，能再见到你真好。你还记得暑假时那次精彩的冒险吗？”
　　乔治不再尴尬了。原本看到朱利安和迪克那么热情地迎接妹妹安妮，乔治觉得自己被晾在了一边。不过有朱利安和迪克这对活宝，谁还会觉得无聊呢，他们是绝对不会让气氛冷场的。
　　四个孩子爬上马车，搬运工把两个箱子装载上，只剩下一人的位置了。于是蒂米坐到了箱子上，它的尾巴来来回回敲了将近20下，一直伸着舌头高兴地喘气。
　　“你俩真幸运，还能带蒂米去上学。”迪克宠溺地拍了拍大狗。
　　“我们学校不让养宠物，这对喜欢动物的家伙们来说真是难熬。”
　　“汤普森•迈纳养过白鼠，”朱利安说，“有一天它们逃跑了，顺着走廊在转角碰到了女舍监，她的叫声快把房顶掀翻了。”
　　女孩们乐不可支，这一路上朱利安和迪克有讲不完的趣闻轶事。
　　“还有肯尼迪养了蜗牛，”迪克说，“你知道，蜗牛要冬眠，但是肯尼迪把蜗牛养在很暖和的地方，结果都从盒子里爬了出来，一路爬到了墙上。当时，地理老师点名让汤普森在地图上指出开普敦，结果正好有只蜗牛趴在这个位置上！”
　　所有人都哈哈大笑起来，相聚的感觉真好。他们是同龄人——朱利安12岁，乔治和迪克11岁，安妮10岁。假期和圣诞节就要来了，毫无疑问他们就是这样快乐，即使是最不好笑的笑话也能轻易戳中笑点！
　　小马疾步奔驰着。迪克开口说：“听说妈妈的情况在好转，不是吗？老实说，我本来有些失望，因为不能回家——真想去看《阿拉丁神灯》和马戏团表演，不过能再来科林庄园也是不错的。希望咱们还能去探险，虽然这次希望渺茫。”
　　朱利安接着说：“这次假期还有一个棘手的问题，就是家庭教师。听说我们肯定会有个家庭教师，因为这学期我和迪克落下不少课，而明年夏天就要举行奖学金考试了。”
　　“是啊，我也好奇他长什么样。真希望他是体育老师，今天昆廷叔叔就会定下来了。”安妮说。
　　朱利安和迪克互相扮了个鬼脸，他们觉得昆廷叔叔选的家庭教师除了体育老师不可能，其他科目都有可能。昆廷叔叔选的家庭教师一定是又严苛、又阴郁、又压迫。
　　管他呢！反正这两天还来不了，没准儿是个有意思的人也说不定。两个男孩欢呼雀跃，拉扯蒂米厚实的皮毛，蒂米作势要咆哮咬人。它根本不需要为家庭教师的到来担心，这个幸运儿！
　　一行人抵达了科林庄园。男孩们再见到范妮婶婶非常开心，而且在听到昆廷叔叔不在家的消息时更是松了一口气。
　　“他去见应聘家庭教师工作的候选人了，好像有两三个，估计过不了多久就回来了。”范妮婶婶说。
　　“妈妈，放假期间我不用上课的，对吧？”乔治急切地问。没有人说过她也要上课，所以她早就想问了。
　　“哦，你也要上，乔治，”范妮婶婶说，“你爸已经看过成绩单了。虽说这个成绩没有那么糟——当然我们对优异的成绩也没抱什么希望，但这说明按你现在的年龄来说，还有一些欠缺，所以，一定的辅导会有立竿见影的效果。”
　　乔治原本也猜到了，但听到妈妈的回答还是显得很不快乐，毕竟这不是件有意思的事。“那安妮就是唯一一个不用上课的了。”乔治说。
　　安妮承诺：“我也会上一些课的，乔治，有时也会陪你一起上课。但我应该不必一直上课，比如说天气很好的时候。”
　　乔治回答：“谢谢，但是你不需要这样。我有蒂米就够了。”
　　范妮婶婶犹豫地看着两人：“我们到时要看看家庭教师怎么说。”
　　乔治突然尖叫起来：“妈妈！如果家庭教师说蒂米不能跟我待在一起，我发誓绝对不会上课的。”
　　范妮婶婶笑了起来：“好吧，好吧。又见识了我们脾气火暴、歇斯底里的乔治！好了，朱利安和迪克快去梳洗一下吧，瞧你们，铁轨上的煤灰好像都粘到身上了。”
　　孩子们和蒂米上楼了，疯狂侦探团的小伙伴们又聚齐了。他们把蒂米也看成其中一员，不管去哪儿都带着它，而且他们说的每句话蒂米都能听懂。
　　“我好奇昆廷叔叔能找一个什么样的家庭教师，”迪克一边用力擦洗指甲一边说，“除非他能找到一个有意思、不刻板的人。不然，用脚指头都能想到假期的课得多无聊了，我们还得绞尽脑汁想办法出去走走。我猜咱们每天早上都得上课。”
　　“快一点，我要喝茶，”朱利安说，“快一点，迪克，我想马上就要见分晓了。”
　　大家一起下了楼，围坐在桌子旁。大厨乔安娜已经烘焙了很多可口的面包和一大块蛋糕，四个孩子如风卷残云，很快就将蛋糕和面包一扫而光了。
　　大伙儿刚吃完，昆廷叔叔就回家了，他看起来心情不错，跟朱利安、迪克握了手，询问他们这学期过得怎么样。
　　“昆廷叔叔，您找到家庭教师了吗？”安妮问出了这个所有人都迫不及待想知道答案的问题。
　　“噢，没错，找到了，”昆廷叔叔说着坐了下来，范妮婶婶为他倒了一杯茶，“我面试过三个候选人，几乎已经选中最后一位，结果突然有一个家伙冲进来，说他刚看到招聘广告，希望不会太迟。”
　　“那您选了他吗？”迪克问。
　　“对，”昆廷叔叔说，“他看起来很机灵，甚至对我的工作领域有涉猎！而且他的推荐信完美无缺。”
　　“我不认为孩子们需要了解这些细节，不管怎么说，你已经请他来了吗？”范妮婶婶问道。
　　“对啊，他比其他候选人要年长一些，恰到好处，其他几个家伙都太年轻。而且这个人聪明能干，又富责任心。你肯定会喜欢他的，范妮。他会融入这里的，我想我每晚还可以跟他聊天。”昆廷叔叔严肃的脸上露出了微笑。
　　孩子们立马感知到这位新家庭教师的到来像是一级警报。
　　“你们会喜欢罗兰德先生的，”昆廷叔叔说，“他擅长调教年轻人，而且作风务实，这个假期结束时你们就会发现自己比假期之初有所长进。”
　　警报升级！孩子们打心眼儿里希望范妮婶婶去挑选家庭教师，而不是昆廷叔叔。
　　“他什么时候过来？”乔治问。
　　“明天，你们可以一起去车站接他，这对他来说是一种真诚的欢迎。”昆廷叔叔回答。
　　朱利安发现安妮失望的表情，于是说：“我们原本打算坐巴士，去进行圣诞节购物。”
　　“哦，不行，你们必须去接罗兰德先生，我已经告诉他你们会去接他了。还得提醒你，不，应该是提醒你们四个——不要和他对着干！罗兰德先生让你们干什么就干什么，而且你们必须跟着他努力学习，因为你爸爸为他支付了高昂的课时费。我会支付其中三分之一，因为我希望他也能辅导一下乔治，乔治，你必须全力以赴！”昆廷叔叔不怒自威。
　　“我会努力的，”乔治说，“只要他人不错，我一定百分百尽力。”
　　昆廷叔叔皱起眉头：“不管他人好不好，你都要竭尽全力！火车明天上午10点30分到站，你们可不能迟到。”
　　当晚，五人组终于有机会单独待一会儿了。迪克说：“希望他不要太严格，如果有人一直跟我们对着干，这个假期就要泡汤了。而且希望他能喜欢蒂米。”
　　乔治立马来劲了：“喜欢蒂米！那是必须的！他怎么会不喜欢？”“可是，上个暑假你爸爸就不太喜欢蒂米啊，虽然不明白怎么会有人不喜欢亲爱的蒂米，但确实有人对狗狗不怎么友好，你知道的，乔治。”迪克说。
　　“如果罗兰德先生不喜欢它，那我一句话都不会听他的，一句都不！”乔治激动地说。
　　“她又暴躁不安了！”迪克笑着说，“哎呀，要是罗兰德先生胆敢不喜欢我们的蒂米，那就要火花四溅了！”
Chapter Three THE NEW TUTOR
Chapter Three THE NEW TUTOR
　　NEXT morning the sun was out, all the sea-mist that had hung about for the last two days haddisappeared, and Kirrin Island showed plainly at the mouth of Kirrin Bay. The children staredlongingly at the ruined castle on it.
　　'I do wish we could get over to the castle,' said Dick. 'It looks quite calm enough, George.'
　　'It's very rough by the island,' said George. 'It always is at this time of year. I know Mother wouldn'tlet us go.'
　　'It's a lovely island, and it's all our own!' said Anne. 'You said you would share it with us for ever andever didn't you, George?'
　　'Yes, I did,' said George. 'And so I will, dungeons and all. Come on - we must get the trap out.
　　We shall be late meeting the train if we stand here all day looking at the island.'
　　They got the pony and trap and set off down the hard lanes. Kirrin Island disappeared behind thecliffs as they turned inland to the station.
　　'Did all this land round about belong to your family once upon a time?' asked Julian.
　　'Yes, all of it,' said George. 'Now we don't own anything except Kirrin Island, our own house -and that farm away over there - Kirrin Farm.'
　　She pointed with her whip. The children saw a fine old farm-house standing on a hill a good way off,over the heather-clad common.
　　'Who lives there?' asked Julian.
　　12
　　'Oh, an old farmer and his wife,' said George. 'They were nice to me when I was smaller. We'll goover there one day if you like. Mother says they don't make the farm pay any more, and in thesummer-time they take in people who want a holiday.'
　　'Hark! That's the train whistling in the tunnel!' said Julian, suddenly. 'Buck up, for goodness'
　　sake, George. We shan't be there in time!'
　　The four children and Timothy looked at the train coming out of the tunnel and drawing in at thestation. The pony cantered along swiftly. They would be just in time.'
　　'Who's going on to the platform to meet him?' asked George, as they drew into the little station yard.
　　I’m not. I must look after Tim and the pony.'
　　'I don't want to,' said Anne. I’ll stay with George.'
　　'Well, we'd better go, then,' said Julian, and he and Dick leapt out of the trap. They ran on to theplatform just as the train pulled up.
　　Not many people got out. A woman clambered out with a basket. A young man leapt out, whistling,the son of the baker in the village. An old man climbed down with difficulty. The tutor could be noneof those!
　　Then, right at the front of the train, rather a queer-looking man got out. He was short and burly, andhe had a beard rather like a sailor. His eyes were piercingly blue, and his thick hair was sprinkledwith grey. He glanced up and down the platform, and then beckoned to the porter.
　　'That must be Mr. Roland', said Julian to Dick. 'Come on - let's ask him. There's no one else it couldbe.'
　　The boys went up to the bearded man. Julian raised his cap politely. 'Are you Mr. Roland, sir?'
　　he asked.
　　'I am,' said the man. 'I suppose you are Julian and Dick?'
　　'Yes, sir,' answered the boys together. 'We brought the pony-trap for your luggage.'
　　'Oh, fine,' said Mr. Roland. His bright blue eyes looked the boys up and down, and he smiled.
　　Julian and Dick liked him. He seemed sensible and jolly.
　　'Are the other two here as well?' said Mr. Roland, walking down the platform, with the porter trailingbehind with his luggage.
　　'Yes - George and Anne are outside with the trap,' said Julian.
　　'George and Anne,' said Mr. Roland, in a puzzled voice. 'I thought the others were girls. I didn't knowthere was a third boy.'
　　13
　　'Oh, George is a girl,' said Dick, with a laugh. 'Her real name is Georgina.'
　　'And a very nice name too,' said Mr. Roland.
　　'George doesn't think so,' said Julian. 'She won't answer if she's called Georgina. You'd better call herGeorge, sir!'
　　'Really?' said Mr. Roland, in rather a chilly tone. Julian took a glance at him.
　　'Not quite so jolly as he looks!' thought the boy.
　　'Tim's out there too,' said Dick.
　　'Oh - and is Tim a boy or a girl?' inquired Mr. Roland, cautiously.
　　'A dog, sir!' said Dick, with a grin.
　　Mr. Roland seemed rather taken-aback. 'A dog?' he said. 'I didn't know there was a dog in thehousehold. Your uncle said nothing to me about a dog.'
　　'Don't you like dogs?' asked Julian, in surprise.
　　'No,' said Mr. Roland, shortly. 'But I daresay your dog won't worry me much. Hallo, hallo - so hereare the little girls! How do you do?'
　　George was not very pleased at being called a little girl. For one thing she hated to be spoken of aslittle, and for another thing she always tried to be a boy. She held out her hand to Mr. Roland andsaid nothing. Anne smiled at him, and Mr. Roland thought she was much the nicer of the two.
　　'Tim! Shake hands with Mr. Roland!' said Julian to Timothy. This was one of Tim's really goodtricks. He could hold out his right paw in a very polite manner. Mr. Roland looked down at the bigdog, and Tim looked back at him.
　　Then, very slowly and deliberately, Timothy turned his back on Mr. Roland and climbed up into thepony- trap! Usually he put out his paw at once when told to, and the children stared at him inamazement.
　　'Timothy! What's come over you?' cried Dick. Tim put his ears down and did not move.
　　'He doesn't like you,' said George, looking at Mr. Roland. 'That's very queer. He usually likes people.
　　But perhaps you don't like dogs?'
　　'No, I don't, as a matter of fact,' said Mr. Roland.
　　'I was once very badly bitten as a boy, and somehow or other I've never managed to like dogs since.
　　But I daresay your Tim will take to me sooner or later.'
　　14
　　They all got into the trap. It was a tight squeeze. Timothy looked at Mr. Roland's ankles as if hewould rather like to nibble them. Anne laughed.
　　'Tim is behaving queerly!' she said. 'It's a good thing you haven't come to teach him, Mr.
　　Roland!' She smiled up at the tutor, and he smiled back, showing very white teeth. His eyes were asbrilliant a blue as George's.
　　Anne liked him. He joked with the boys as they drove him, and both of them began to feel that theirUncle Quentin hadn't made such a bad choice after all.
　　Only George said nothing. She sensed that the tutor disliked Timothy, and George was not preparedto like anyone who didn't take to Timothy at first sight. She thought it was very queer too, that Timwould not shake paws with the tutor. 'He's a clever dog,' she thought. 'He knows Mr. Roland doesn'tlike him, so he won't shake hands. I don't blame you, Tim darling. I wouldn't shake hands withanyone who didn't like me!'
　　Mr. Roland was shown up to his room when he arrived. Aunt Fanny came down and spoke to thechildren. 'Well! He seems very nice and jolly - though it's funny to see a youngish man with a beard.'
　　'Youngish!' exclaimed Julian. 'Why, he's awfully old! Must be forty at the very least!'
　　Aunt Fanny laughed. 'Does he seem so old to you?' she said. 'Well, old or not, he'll be quite nice toyou, I'm sure.'
　　'Aunt Fanny, we shan't begin lessons until after Christmas, shall we?' asked Julian, anxiously.
　　'Of course you will!' said his aunt. 'It is almost a week till Christmas - you don't suppose we haveasked Mr. Roland to come and do nothing till Christmas is over, do you?'
　　The children groaned. 'We wanted to do some Christmas shopping,' said Anne.
　　'Well, you can do that in the afternoons,' said her aunt. 'You will only do lessons in the morning, forthree hours. That won't hurt any of you!'
　　The new tutor came downstairs at that moment, and Aunt Fanny took him to see Uncle Quentin.
　　She came out after a while, looking very pleased.
　　'Mr. Roland will be nice company for your uncle,' she said to Julian. 'I think they will get on verywell together. Mr. Roland seems to understand quite a bit about your uncle's work.'
　　'Let's hope he spends most of his time with him then!' said George, in a low voice.
　　'Come on out for a walk,' said Dick. 'It's so fine today. We shan't have lessons this morning, shall we,Aunt Fanny?'
　　15
　　'Oh, no,' said his aunt. 'You'll begin tomorrow. Go for a walk now, all of you - we shan't often getsunny days like this!'
　　'Let's go over to Kirrin Farm,' said Julian. 'It looks such a nice place. Show us the way, George.'
　　'Right!' said George. She whistled to Timothy, and he came bounding up. The five of them set offtogether, going down the lane, and then on to a rough road over the common that led to the farm onthe distant hill.
　　It was lovely walking in the December sun. Their feet rang on the frosty path, and Tim's blunt clawsmade quite a noise as he pattered up and down, overjoyed at being with his four friends again.
　　After a good long walk across the common the children came to the farm-house. It was built of whitestone, and stood strong and lovely on the hillside. George opened the farm-gate and went into thefarm-yard. She kept her hand on Tim's collar for there were two farm-dogs somewhere about.
　　Someone clattered round the barn near by. It was an old man, and George hailed him loudly.
　　'Hallo, Mr. Sanders! How are you?'
　　'Why, if it isn't Master George!' said the old fellow with a grin. George grinned too. She loved beingcalled Master instead of Miss.
　　'These are my cousins,' shouted George. She turned to the others. 'He's deaf,' she said. 'You'll have toshout to make him hear.'
　　I’m Julian,' said Julian in a loud voice and the others said their names too. The farmer beamed atthem.
　　'You come along in and see the Missis,' he said. 'She'll be rare pleased to see you all. We've knownMaster George since she was a baby, and we knew her mother when she was a baby too, and weknew her granny as well.'
　　'You must be very, very old,' said Anne.
　　The farmer smiled down at her.
　　'As old as my tongue and a little older than my teeth!' he said, chuckling. 'Come away in now.'
　　They all went into the big, warm farm-house kitchen, where a little old woman, as lively as a bantamhen, was bustling about. She was just as pleased to see the four children as her husband was.
　　16
　　'Well, there now!' she said. 'I haven't seen you for months, Master George. I did hear that you'd goneaway to school.'
　　'Yes, I did,' said George. 'But I'm home for the holidays now. Does it matter if I let Timothy loose,Mrs. Sanders? I think he'll be friendly if your dogs are, too.'
　　'Yes, you let him loose,' said the old lady. 'He'll have a fine time in the farm-yard with Ben andRikky. Now what would you like to drink? Hot milk? Cocoa? Coffee? And I've some new shortbreadbaked yesterday. You shall have some of that.'
　　'Ah, the wife's very busy this week, cooking up all sorts of things,' said the old farmer, as his wifebustled off to the larder. 'We've company this Christmas!'
　　'Have you?' said George, surprised, for she knew that the old pair had never had any children of theirown. 'Who is coming? Anyone I know?'
　　'Two artists from London Town!' said the old farmer. 'Wrote and asked us to take them for threeweeks over Christmas - and offered us good money too. So the old wife's as busy as a bee.'
　　'Are they going to paint pictures?' asked Julian, who rather fancied himself as an artist, too. 'I wonderif I could come and talk to them some day. I'm rather good at pictures myself. They might give me afew hints.'
　　'You come along whenever you like,' said old Mrs. Sanders, making cocoa in a big jug. She set out aplate of most delicious-looking shortbreads, and the children ate them hungrily.
　　'I should think the two artists will be rather lonely down here, in the depths of the country atChristmas time,' said George. 'Do they know anyone?'
　　'They say they don't know a soul,' said Mrs. Sanders. 'But there - artists are queer folk. I've had somehere before. They seemed to like mooning about all alone. These two will be happy enough, I'll bebound.'
　　'They should be, with all the good things you're cooking up for them,' said her old husband.
　　'Well, I must be out after the sheep. Good-day to you, youngsters. Come again and see us sometimes.'
　　He went out. Old Mrs. Sanders chattered on to the children as she bustled about the big kitchen.
　　Timothy ran in and settled down on the rug by the fire.
　　He suddenly saw a tabby cat slinking along by the wall, all her hairs on end with fear of the strangedog. He gave a delighted wuff and sprang at the cat. She fled out of the kitchen into the old panelledhall. Tim flew after her, taking no notice at all of George's stern shout.
　　17
　　The cat tried to leap on top of an old grandfather clock in the hall. With a joyous bark Tim sprangtoo. He flung himself against a polished panel - and then a most extraordinary thing happened!
　　The panel disappeared - and a dark hole showed in the old wall! George, who had followed Tim outinto the hall, gave a loud cry of surprise. 'Look! Mrs. Sanders, come and look!'
3.家庭教师
　　家庭教师
　　第二天一早太阳出来了，持续了两天的海雾消散了，从科林湾入海口处能清楚地看到科林岛。孩子们眼巴巴地盯着岛上那座破旧的城堡。
　　迪克说：“真希望我们能到城堡那边去，乔治，那儿看着很平静。”
　　“但是岛上很危险，每年的这个时候都是这样，我知道我妈妈不会同意的。”乔治说。
　　“那座小岛真可爱，而且是我们的！”安妮说，“乔治，你说过会永远和我们分享它的，对吗？”
　　乔治说：“是的，而且我也会永远遵守承诺，跟你们分享小岛、城堡，还有地牢等所有的一切。来吧，我们得出发了。要是一整天站在这里盯着小岛，我们就要迟到了。”
　　于是他们驾着轻便马车沿着坚硬的石子路出发了，一路向火车站驶去。城堡渐渐被山崖挡住，消失在视线里了。
　　朱利安问：“这片土地以前都是你家的吗？”
　　“是的，全都是，”乔治说，“但现在不是了，除了科林岛、我们的房子，还有远处的那个科林农场以外，其他的都不属于我们了。”
　　乔治手持马鞭指向远处，孩子们看到远处山坡上的蔷薇丛中，有一幢古老、精致的农舍。
　　朱利安又问：“住在那里的是什么人？”
　　“哦，是一对老农夫妇，”乔治说，“他们是农夫。从我小时候他们就对我很好，如果你们喜欢，我们改天可以去那里。我妈说，他们农场收费并不高，夏天的时候他们会招待想去那里度假的人。”
　　朱利安突然大叫起来：“天哪！火车已经在隧道里鸣笛了！快点！乔治，我们要迟到了！”
　　四个孩子和蒂米看着火车驶出隧道，慢慢驶近站台。小马加快了步伐，他们应该会将将赶到。
　　马车驶入火车站的小院子里，乔治问：“谁去站台上接他？蒂米不能进去，我必须在这儿看着蒂米和马车。”
　　安妮说：“我不想去，我要和乔治待在一起。”
　　“好吧，那看来只能咱们去了。”朱利安说。于是他和迪克跳下马车，当乘客们开始走出火车时，他们刚好跑到站台上。
　　下车的乘客并不多，一个妇女挎着篮子蹒跚而下，一个年轻人轻巧地跳下来，吹了声口哨，那是村里面包师的儿子。还有一位老者，腿脚都不灵便。他们肯定都不是家庭教师！
　　这时，一个长相怪异的男人走了出来，他是从火车前部车厢下车的。
　　他身材不高，却很粗壮，留着水手般的胡子，眼睛蓝得透亮，浓密的头发已经有些许白发，他上下打量着站台，随后又召唤行李搬运工来帮忙。
　　朱利安对迪克说：“那个一定是罗兰德先生，别人看起来都不像。走，我们去问问他。”
　　于是两个男孩走到这个留着胡子的男人面前，朱利安礼貌地举起礼帽：“请问您是罗兰德先生吗？”
　　那位男士回答：“是的，我想你们就是朱利安和迪克吧？”
　　“对，”两人异口同声地说，“我们驾了马车来，可以装运行李。”
　　“哦，太好了。”罗兰德先生说。他明亮的蓝眼睛上下打量着两个男孩，脸上始终挂着微笑。朱利安和迪克对他的第一印象不错，因为眼前这位罗兰德先生看起来睿智、风趣。
　　“其他人也来了吗？”罗兰德先生边说边走下站台。行李搬运工推着行李跟在他们后面。
　　“没错，乔治和安妮在马车那里。”朱利安说。
　　“乔治和安妮，”罗兰德先生有些疑惑，“我以为另外两个孩子是女孩，没听说有三个男孩啊。”
　　“哦，乔治是个女孩啦，”迪克忍不住笑了出来，“她全名应该是乔治娜，但你最好叫她‘乔治’，先生！”
　　“是吗？”罗兰德先生语气相当冰冷。
　　朱利安瞥了他一眼。“他可不像外表看起来那样有趣！”男孩心里想。
　　“蒂米也在外面。”迪克说。
　　“哦，那蒂米是男孩还是女孩呢？”罗兰德语气谨慎地问。
　　“是一只狗，先生！”迪克嘟囔一声。
　　罗兰德先生看起来吃了一惊。“一只狗？”他说，“我之前并不知道这家人还养了狗，你们的叔叔完全没提这回事。”
　　朱利安有些惊讶：“你不喜欢狗？”
　　罗兰德并不回避：“对，不过你们的狗应该不会影响到我。嘿，你们好啊，所以就是这两个女孩了！”
　　乔治很介意自己被别人称为“女孩”，她一直想当一个独立、坚强的“大男孩”，于是她只是象征性地跟罗兰德先生握了握手，什么都没有说。安妮对罗兰德先生微笑，这让罗兰德先生认为她比乔治好接触得多。
　　“蒂米，快跟罗兰德先生握手！”朱利安对蒂米说。这可是蒂米的绝招之一：可以温顺地将右爪伸出与人握手。罗兰德先生低头俯视着这只大狗，而蒂米也在看着他。
　　接着，蒂米慢吞吞地背过身去，优雅地跳上了马车！通常被命令时，蒂米都会马上伸出爪子，但是这一次……孩子们都目瞪口呆。
　　“蒂米！你怎么了？”迪克大喊。蒂米耷拉下耳朵，一动也不动。
　　乔治歪着脸看着罗兰德先生说：“它不喜欢你，这很少见，它一般对人很友好，不过可能你并不喜欢狗吧？”
　　“没错，我确实不喜欢，这是事实，”罗兰德先生说，“小时候，我曾经被狗严重咬伤，从那以后我再也没跟狗近距离接触过，不过我敢保证，你的蒂米迟早会跟我亲近起来。”
　　所有人都上了马车，空间挤得满满当当。蒂米盯着罗兰德先生的脚踝，那眼神好像要将它咬个粉碎，这让安妮乐不可支。
　　“今天蒂米真反常！你不用教它真是太幸运了，罗兰德先生！”安妮微笑着对罗兰德先生说，对方也微笑致意，露出了一口洁白的牙齿。他的蓝眼睛就像乔治的眼睛一样晶莹透亮。
　　安妮挺喜欢这个老师的。他和男孩们互相开玩笑，朱利安和迪克也感觉昆廷叔叔的选择其实还不赖。
　　只有乔治没有发表意见，她能感觉到这位家庭教师并不喜欢蒂米，如果有人对蒂米第一印象不好，那么乔治不会接受这个人。而且乔治心里也觉得奇怪：蒂米竟然不愿跟他握手，这说明它知道罗兰德先生不喜欢它。聪明的蒂米宝贝，我不怪你，对于不喜欢我的人，我也不会跟他握手的！
　　回到家，罗兰德先生去参观自己的房间了。范妮婶婶下楼来，对孩子们说：“好吧！他看上去很不错，也挺有意思的——不过年轻人留着八字胡倒是很少见呢。”
　　朱利安惊声说：“年轻人！什么，他明明很老了！他至少得有40岁了！”
　　范妮婶婶笑得合不拢嘴：“他看上去那么老吗？好吧，不管老不老，我相信他对你们会很不错的。”
　　“范妮婶婶，我们为什么不能圣诞节后再上课呢？”朱利安好奇地问。
　　“当然不行了！”范妮婶婶说，“距离圣诞节还有一周，难道你们以为我会‘花钱’雇罗兰德先生出来玩一周？”
　　孩子们叫苦连天。“我们想去买圣诞节礼物！”
　　“你们完全可以下午再去购物，”范妮婶婶说，“你们只有上午上课——三个小时左右，这不影响安排啊！”
　　这时罗兰德先生整理完毕下楼来了，范妮婶婶带着他去见昆廷叔叔了，不一会儿，她又高兴地走了出来。“罗兰德先生跟你们昆廷叔叔有不少共同语言呢，”她对朱利安说，“我想他们会相处得不错，看起来他对昆廷的研究也有些了解。”
　　乔治小声说：“希望他们尽可能多地待在一起。”
　　这时迪克提议道：“我们出去散步吧！今天天气那么好，我们今天上午就不上课了。好不好，范妮婶婶？”
　　“哦，不上，”范妮婶婶说，“你们从明天开始上课，出去走走吧，大家都去吧，我们可不是总能遇上这么好的天气！”
　　“那我们去科林农场吧，”朱利安说，“那儿看上去很漂亮，乔治快带路吧。”
　　“好主意！”乔治说。她对蒂米吹了一声口哨，大狗立马跳了起来。疯狂侦探团全体出动，他们一路沿着小路走，那条路蜿蜒崎岖，通往远处山坡上的农场。
　　在12月的冬日暖阳下走走，还是很美好的，他们的脚步声在结霜的路面上踩出声响，蒂米一蹦一跳，厚重的肉垫发出巨大的响声，看得出和四位伙伴重聚，它兴奋过了头。
　　走了很长一段路，他们终于抵达农场。农舍是由白色的石头建成的，在山坡上显得那样坚固而美观。乔治推开农场的大门，走进院子里。她的手一直紧紧抓住蒂米的项圈，因为农场里有两只看门狗。
　　不远处的谷仓那里发出一阵窸窣的响声，是一位老人。乔治使劲挥手向他打招呼：“您好啊！桑德斯老先生，最近还好吗？”
　　“哎呀，这不是乔治少爷吗？”老农夫咳嗽一声。乔治也咳嗽一声，她很享受被别人称作少爷，而不是女士。
　　“这些都是我的堂兄妹，”乔治大声喊，然后对安妮他们解释，“他耳背，你们必须大声喊，他才听得见。”
　　于是朱利安大声说：“我是朱利安。”其他人也依次大声介绍了自己，老农夫满脸堆笑。
　　“你们快进去看看老婆婆吧，”他说，“她一定非常高兴见到你们。乔治老师小时候我们就见过了，还有她妈妈，她妈妈的妈妈……”
　　“那您一定非常老了。”安妮说。
　　老农夫笑着对她说：“和我的舌头一样老，但比牙齿要老一点！
　　快进去吧！”他咯咯笑着。
　　大家一起走进了农舍又大又温暖的厨房，那里有一位矮小的老婆婆正在忙前忙后。她跟她的丈夫一样，见到四个孩子，也是高兴得不得了。
　　“哦，你终于来了！我都好几个月没有见到你了，乔治老师！听说你去上学了！”老婆婆说道。
　　乔治说：“是的，我去上学了，不过现在放假回家了。桑德斯太太，我把蒂米松开没事吧？只要您的狗容易相处，它是很友好的。”
　　“没问题，它会和本，还有里奇在院子里愉快玩耍的。你们想喝什么？热牛奶？可可？还是咖啡？还有我昨天刚烤的奶油酥饼，你们也尝一尝吧。”桑德斯太太笑着说。
　　“哦，老婆婆这个礼拜忙得不可开交，忙前忙后做各种吃的，”桑德斯老先生说着，只见桑德斯太太急匆匆又去食品储藏室了，“我们圣诞节有伴了！”
　　“是吗？”乔治很惊喜，因为她知道夫妻两人没有一儿半女，“是谁？我认识吗？”
　　“从伦敦城里来的两个画家！”桑德斯老先生说，“他们给我们来信说要在圣诞节期间过来住上三个星期，而且支付的价格也很可观。所以老婆婆忙得焦头烂额。”
　　“他们是来采风的吗？”朱利安想成为一名画家，“不知道到时我可不可以来跟他们交流一下。我感觉自己画得不错，也许他们能给我一些指点。”
　　“你随时可以来。”桑德斯太太说道。她正在制作一大罐热可可，还有一盘看上去就让人口水直流的小酥饼。小酥饼一端上来就被孩子们一扫而光。
　　“我想这两位画家在这儿会很孤独吧，圣诞节期间来到这么偏远的乡村，他们认识什么人吗？”乔治说。
　　“他们说一个人都不认识，”桑德斯太太说，“不过艺术家都是特立独行的。以前我们也见过类似的艺术家，他们好像就喜欢独处。
　　这次有两个人一起来可热闹了，我一定忙得不可开交。”
　　“你做的东西那么好吃，他们肯定乐坏了，”桑德斯老先生说，“好了，我得去放羊了，年轻人们，祝你们度过愉快的一天，常来看看我们。”
　　桑德斯老先生走后，桑德斯太太一边和孩子们闲聊，一边在偌大的厨房里忙前忙后。蒂米跑了进来，在炉火旁的小地毯上趴着。
　　突然，它看到一只长着斑纹的猫正沿着墙根小心翼翼地走过来。由于对这只陌生大狗的恐惧，这只猫全身的毛几乎都竖立起来了。蒂米高兴地大叫一声冲向了那只猫，那只猫飞也似的逃离厨房，冲进四周全是木制墙板的老式大厅，蒂米一直紧追其后，丝毫没有注意到乔治严厉的制止声。
　　那只猫试图跳到大厅里一只老古董大钟上，蒂米也兴奋地大叫一声跳了上去，无意中碰到了一块擦得锃亮的木制墙板，紧接着最不可思议的事情发生了！
　　那块墙板瞬间不见了——墙上出现一个黑洞！跟着蒂米来到大厅的乔治目瞪口呆：“大家快来看！桑德斯太太！快来看啊！”
Chapter Four AN EXCITING DISCOVERY
Chapter Four AN EXCITING DISCOVERY
　　OLD Mrs. Sanders and the other three children rushed out into the hall when they heard George'sshout.
　　'What's up?' cried Julian. 'What's happened?'
　　'Tim sprang at the cat, missed her, and fell hard against the panelled wall,' said George, 'And thepanel moved, and look - there's a "hole in the wall!'
　　'It's a secret panel!' cried Dick, in excitement, peering into the hole. 'Golly! Did you know there wasone here, Mrs. Sanders?'
　　'Oh yes,' said the old lady. 'This house is full of funny things like that. I'm very careful when \ polishthat panel, because if I rub too hard in the top corner, it always slides back.'
　　'What's behind the panel?' asked Julian. The hole was only about the width of his head, and when hestuck his head inside, he could see only darkness. The wall itself was about eight inches behind thepanelling, and was of stone.
　　'Get a candle, do, get a candle!' said Anne, thrilled. 'You haven't got a torch, have you, Mrs.
　　Sanders?'
　　'No,' said the old woman. 'But you can get a candle if you like. There's one on the kitchenmantelpiece.'
　　Anne shot off to get it. Julian lighted it and put it into the hole behind the panel. The others pushedagainst him to try and peep inside.
　　'Don't,' said Julian, impatiently. 'Wait your turn, sillies! Let me have a look.'
　　18
　　He had a good look, but there didn't really seem anything to see. It was all darkness behind, and stonewall. He gave the candle to Dick, and then each of the children had a turn at peeping. Old Mrs.
　　Sanders had gone back to the kitchen. She was used to the sliding panel!
　　'She said this house was full of queer things like that,' said Anne. 'What other things are there, do youthink ? Let's ask her.'
　　They slid the panel back into place and went to find Mrs. Sanders. 'Mrs. Sanders, what other funnythings are there in Kirrin Farm-house?' asked Julian.
　　'There's a cupboard upstairs with a false back,' said Mrs. Sanders. 'Don't look so excited! There'snothing in it at all! And there's a big stone over there by the fireplace that pulls up to show a hidey-hole. I suppose in the old days people wanted good hiding-places for things.'
　　The children ran to the stone she pointed out. It had an iron ring in it, and was easily pulled up.
　　Below was a hollowed-out place, big enough to take a small box. It was empty now, but all the sameit looked exciting.
　　'Where's the cupboard?' asked Julian.
　　'My old legs are too tired to go traipsing upstairs this morning,' said the farmer's wife. 'But you cango your selves. Up the stairs, turn to the right, and go into the second door you see. The cupboard isat the farther end. Open the door and feel about at the bottom till you come across a dent in the wood.
　　Press it hard, and the false back slides to the side.'
　　The four children and Timothy ran upstairs as fast as they could, munching shortbread as they went.
　　This really was a very exciting morning!
　　They found the cupboard, and opened the door. All four went down on hands arid knees to pressround the bottom of the cupboard to find the dented place. Anne found it.
　　'I've got it!' she cried. She pressed hard, but her little fingers were not strong enough to work themechanism of the sliding back. Julian had to help her.
　　There was a creaking noise, and the children saw the false back of the cupboard sliding sideways. Abig space showed behind, large enough to take a fairly thin man.
　　'A jolly good hiding-place,' said Julian. 'Anyone could hide there and no one would ever know!'
　　I’ll get in and you shut me up,' said Dick. 'It would be exciting.'
　　He got into the space. Julian slid the back across, and Dick could no longer be seen!
　　'Bit of a tight fit!' he called. 'And awfully dark! Let me out again.'
　　19
　　The children all took turns at going into the space behind the back of the cupboard and being shut up.
　　Anne didn't like it very much.
　　They went down to the warm kitchen again. 'It's a most exciting cupboard, Mrs. Sanders,' said Julian.
　　'I do wish we lived in a house like this, full of secrets!'
　　'Can we come and play in that cupboard again?' asked George.
　　'No, I'm afraid you can't, Master George,' said Mrs. Sanders. 'That room where the cupboard is, is onethe two gentlemen are going to have.’
　　'Oh!' said Julian, disappointed. 'Shall you tell them about the sliding back, Mrs. Sanders?’
　　'I don't expect so,' said the old lady. 'It's only you children that get excited about things like that, blessyou. Two gentlemen wouldn't think twice about it.'
　　'How funny grown-ups are!' said Anne, puzzled. 'I'm quite certain I shall be thrilled to see a slidingpanel or a trap-door even when I'm a hundred.'
　　'Same here,' said Dick. 'Could I just go and look into the sliding panel in the hall once more, Mrs.
　　Sanders? I'll take the candle.'
　　Dick never knew why he suddenly wanted to have another look. It was just an idea he had. Theothers didn't bother to go with him, for there really was nothing to see behind the panelling except theold stone wall.
　　Dick took the candle and went into the hall. He pressed on the panel at the top and it slid back.
　　He put the candle inside and had another good look. There was nothing at all to be seen. Dick tookout his head and put in his arm, stretching along the wall as far as his hand would reach. He was justabout to take it back when his fingers found a hole in the wall.
　　'Funny!' said Dick. 'Why should there be a hole in the stone wall just there?'
　　He stuck in his finger and thumb and worked them about. He felt a little ridge inside the wall, ratherlike a bird's perch, and was able to get hold of it. He wriggled his fingers about the perch, but nothinghappened. Then he got a good hold and pulled.
　　The stone came right out! Dick was so surprised that he let go the heavy stone and it fell to theground behind the panelling with a crash!
　　The noise brought the others out into the hall. 'Whatever are you doing, Dick?' said Julian, 'Have youbroken something?'
　　'No,' said Dick, his face reddening with excitement. 'I say - I put my hand in here - and found a holein one of the stones the wall is made of - and I got hold of a sort of ridge with my finger and 20thumb and pulled. The stone came right out, and I got such a surprise I let go. It fell, and that's whatyou heard!'
　　'Golly!' said Julian, trying to push Dick away from the open panel. 'Let me see.'
　　'No, Julian,' said Dick, pushing him away. 'This is my discovery. Wait till I see if I can feel anythingin the hole. It's difficult to get at!'
　　The others waited impatiently. Julian could hardly prevent himself from pushing Dick right away.
　　Dick put his arm in as far as he could, and curved his hand round to get into the space behind wherethe stone had been. His fingers felt about and he closed them round something that felt like a book.
　　Cautiously and carefully he brought it out.
　　'An old book!' he said.
　　'What's in it ?' cried Anne.
　　They turned the pages carefully. They were so dry and brittle that some of them fell into dust.
　　'I think it's a book of recipes,' said Anne, as her sharp eyes read a few words in the old brown, fadedhandwriting. 'Let's take it to Mrs. Sanders.'
　　The children carried the book to the old lady. She laughed at their beaming faces. She took the bookand looked at it, not at all excited.
　　'Yes,' she said. 'It's a book of recipes, that's all it is. See the name in the front - Alice Mary Sanders -that must have been my great-grandmother. She was famous for her medicines, I know.
　　It was said she could cure any ill man or animal, no matter what it was.'
　　'It's a pity it's so hard to read her writing,' said Julian, disappointed. 'The whole book is falling topieces too. It must be very old.'
　　'Do you think there's anything else in that hidey-hole?' asked Anne. 'Julian, you go and put your armin, it's longer than Dick's.'
　　'There didn't seem to be anything else at all,' said Dick. 'It's a very small place - just a few inches ofhollow space behind that brick or stone that fell down.'
　　'Well, I'll just put my hand in and see,' said Julian. They all went back into the hall. Julian put his arminto the open panel, and slid it along the wall to where, the stone had fallen out. His hand went intothe space there, and his long fingers groped about, feeling for anything else that might be there.
　　There was something else, something soft and flat that felt like leather. Eagerly the boy's fingersclosed over it and he drew it out carefully, half afraid that it might fall to pieces with age.
　　21
　　'I've got something!' he said, his eyes gleaming brightly. 'Look - what is it?'
　　The others crowded round. 'It's rather like Daddy's tobacco pouch,' said Anne, feeling it. The sameshape. Is there anything inside?'
　　It was a tobacco pouch, very dark brown, made of soft leather and very much worn. Carefully Julianundid the flap, and unrolled the leather.
　　A few bits of black tobacco were still in the pouch -but there was something else, too! Tightly rolledup in the last bit of pouch was a piece of linen. Julian took it out and unrolled it. He put it flat on thehall-table.
　　The children stared at it. There were marks and signs on the linen, done in black ink that had hardlyfaded. But the four of them could not make head or tail of the marks.
　　'It's not a map,' said Julian. 'It seems a sort of code, or something. I do wonder what it means. I wishwe could make it out. It must be some sort of secret.'
　　The children stared at the piece of linen, very thrilled. It was so old - and contained some kind ofsecret. Whatever could it be?
　　They ran to show it to Mrs. Sanders. She was studying the old recipe book, and her face glowed withpleasure as she raised it to look at the excited children.
　　'This book's a wonder!' she said. 'I can hardly read the writing, but here's a recipe for backache. Ishall try it myself. My back aches so much at the end of the day. Now, you listen ...'
　　But the children didn't want to listen to recipes for backache. They pushed the piece of linen on toMrs. Sanders' lap.
　　'Look! What's this about, Mrs. Sanders? Do you know ? We found it in a kind of tobacco pouch inthat place behind the panel.'
　　Mrs. Sanders took off her glasses, polished them, and put them on again. She looked carefully at thepiece of linen with its strange marks.
　　She shook her head. 'No - this doesn't make any sense to me. And what's this now - it looks like anold tobacco pouch. Ah, my John would like that, I guess. He's got such an old one that it won't holdhis tobacco any more! This is old too - but there's a lot of wear in it yet.'
　　'Mrs. Sanders, do you want this piece of linen too?' asked Julian, anxiously. He was longing to take ithome and study it. He felt certain there was some kind of exciting secret hidden there, and he couldnot bear the thought of leaving it with Mrs. Sanders.
　　22
　　'You take it, Master Julian, if you want it,' said Mrs. Sanders, with a laugh. I’ll keep the recipes formyself, and John shall have the pouch. You can have the old rag if you want it, though it beats mewhy you set such store by it! Ah, here's John!'
　　She raised her voice and shouted to the deaf old man. 'Hey, John, here's a tobacco pouch' for you.
　　The children found it somewhere behind that panel that opens in the hall.'
　　John took it and fingered it. 'It's a queer one,' he said. 'But better than mine. Well, youngsters, I don'twant to hurry you, but it's one o'clock now, and you'd best be going if it's near your dinner-time!'
　　'Gracious!' said Julian. 'We shall be late! Good- bye, Mrs. Sanders, and thanks awfully for theshortbread and this old rag. We'll try our best to make out what's on it and tell you. Hurry, everyone!
　　Where's Tim? Come on, Timothy, we're late!'
　　The five of them ran off quickly. They really were late, and had to run most of the way, which meantthat it was difficult to talk. But they were so excited about their morning that they panted remarks toone another as they went.
　　'I wonder what this old rag says!' panted Julian. 'I mean to find out. I'm sure it's somethingmysterious.'
　　'Shall we tell anyone?' asked Dick.
　　'No!' said George. 'Let's keep it a secret.'
　　'If Anne starts to give away anything, kick her under the table, like we did last summer,' said Julian,with a grin. Poor Anne always found it difficult to keep a secret, and often had to be nudged or kickedwhen she began to give things away.
　　'I won't say a word,' said Anne, indignantly. 'And don't you dare to kick me. It only makes me cry outand then the grown-ups want to know why.'
　　'We'll have a good old puzzle over this piece of linen after dinner,' said Julian. 'I bet we'll find outwhat it says, if we really make up our minds to!'
　　'Here we are,' said George. 'Not too late. Hallo, Mother! We won't be a minute washing our hands!
　　We've had a lovely time.'
4.意外的发现
　　意外的发现
　　桑德斯太太和其他三个孩子听到乔治的喊声后冲进了大厅。
　　“怎么了？”朱利安喊道，“出什么事了？”
　　“蒂米扑过去抓那只猫，不料却摔在那块墙板上，”乔治说，“结果墙板竟然动了——墙上居然出现了一个洞！”
　　“这是块有秘密的墙板！”迪克兴奋地喊道，他凝视着那个洞，“天哪！你知道这里有个洞吗，桑德斯太太？”
　　“哦，是的，”桑德斯太太说，“这房子里到处都是有趣的东西，每次擦那块墙板时我都很小心，因为如果顶上那里擦得太用力，它就会翻回去。”
　　“那墙板后面有什么？”朱利安问。那个洞也就是他头部的宽度，他把头伸了进去，里面一片漆黑。石头砌成的墙壁本身距离木制的墙板大约有八英寸。
　　“点蜡烛，快，点蜡烛！”安妮激动地说道，“你有手电筒吗，桑德斯太太？”
　　“没有，”老太太说，“不过你可以点支蜡烛，厨房壁炉架上就有。”
　　安妮立马去拿来，朱利安将蜡烛点燃伸进洞中，其他人也你争我抢试图往里看。
　　“不要推，”朱利安不耐烦地说道，“等会儿，伙计们！让我先看一下。”他仔细看了看，发现后面除了一堵石墙外，什么都没有。他把蜡烛递给迪克，然后每个孩子都看了一遍。桑德斯老太太已经回到了厨房，她早已习惯了！
　　“桑德斯太太说这房子里充满了奇怪的东西，”安妮说，“你们觉得还有什么其他的东西？我们问问她吧。”
　　他们将墙板翻回原位，去找桑德斯太太。“桑德斯太太，科林农场还有什么有趣的东西？”朱利安问。
　　桑德斯太太说：“楼上有一个带着夹层的柜子，不过你们可别高兴得太早！里面什么都没有！还有一块大石头摆在壁炉旁，推开以后有一个隐蔽的洞，我想那是以前的人们用来藏东西的。”
　　孩子们跑到她说的那块石头旁，石头上有个铁环，便于将其提起。石头下面就是一个挖空的地洞，瞧那空间足以放下一个小盒子。它现在是空的，但看起来依然令人兴奋。
　　“柜子在哪里？”朱利安问道。
　　“我这老胳膊老腿，要上楼就太费事了，”桑德斯太太说，“你们自己去吧，上了楼梯，向右转第二个房间。柜子在房间另一头，打开柜门，在底部摸索一下，直到碰到一个木头凹痕，用力按一下，那块有机关的背板就会滑到另一侧。”
　　四个孩子和蒂米飞也似的跑到楼上，还不忘吃着酥饼。这个早晨太过瘾了！
　　他们找到柜子，打开门，七手八脚地在柜子底部找那个凹槽。
　　最终安妮找到了。
　　“我找到了！”她喊着。她用力一压，但是力量不够，机关并没有启动。朱利安帮她一起按下去。
　　只听见嘎吱作响，孩子们看到柜子背面的木板向侧边滑动，而后一个巨大的空间出现了，这个空间足以容纳一个瘦削的成年男性。
　　朱利安说：“这个藏身之地棒极了，不管谁藏在那里，都没人会知道！”
　　“我进去试试，你关上门，”迪克说，“这可真棒！”迪克进去以后，朱利安把机关滑动回原位，大家就看不到迪克了！
　　“关得太严实了！”迪克喊道，“而且特别黑！快放我出来！”
　　孩子们轮流进去试了一番，不过安妮并不喜欢被关在密闭的空间里。
　　他们回到温暖的厨房。“这柜子设计得真精妙，桑德斯太太，”朱利安说，“真希望我们可以住在这样一个充满秘密的房子里！”
　　“我们以后还能到那个柜子里玩吗？”乔治问道。
　　“很遗憾，乔治，”桑德斯太太说，“其中一位伦敦来的画家会住在有柜子的那间房。”
　　“哦！”朱利安失望地说道，“你会告诉他们有关滑动机关的事吗，桑德斯太太？”
　　“我不打算这么做，”老太太说，“只有你们这些孩子才对这样的事情兴奋不已，我发誓，那两位先生估计不会。”
　　“大人可真有意思！”安妮打趣道，“就算我100岁的时候，如果发现可以滑动的墙板啊、活板门啊，还是会很兴奋的。”
　　“我也是，”迪克说，“我可以再去看看大厅里的那块墙板吗，桑德斯太太？我会带着蜡烛的。”
　　迪克也说不出为什么突然想再去看一眼，这只是突然产生的想法。其他人并不愿意和他一起去，因为那里除了古老的石墙之外，什么也没有。
　　迪克拿起蜡烛走进大厅。他按了墙板的顶部，墙板便翻了过去。迪克把蜡烛放在里面，又仔细看了一遍，还是什么都没有。于是他把手臂伸进去，尽可能在里面摸索，就在什么也没发现准备放弃时，他的手指在墙上摸索到一个洞。
　　“奇怪！”迪克说，“为什么石墙上会有洞？”
　　他把拇指和食指插进洞里摸索，感觉洞里有一个小小的凸起，像是小鸟栖息的一段树枝。他用手握住后试着扭动了一下，不过什么都没发生。于是他紧紧抓住这个凸起使劲向外拉。
　　那块石头竟然被拖出来了！迪克惊讶不已，他松开那块沉重的石头，石头就坠落在墙板后面的地上！巨大的声响吸引了其他人。“你在做什么，迪克？”朱利安说，“你闯祸了？”
　　“没有，”迪克说，他的脸因兴奋而通红，“我说，我把手伸进来，结果在墙上的其中一块石头上找到一个洞，于是我就抓住洞里那个凸起的地方，结果把那块石头拽出来了，我感到很意外，然后松了手，它就掉到地上了，发出了声响！”
　　“天哪！”朱利安说，他试图将迪克推开，“让我看看。”
　　“不，朱利安，”迪克说着把他推开，“这可是我发现的，让我看看洞里还有没有其他东西，这可是很重大的发现！”
　　于是其他人继续焦急地等着，朱利安已经按捺不住想要把迪克推开了。迪克尽可能地伸展手臂，蜷起手掌，将手伸进那块石头原来所在的位置后面。他用手指四处摸索、试探着。有了！好像是一本书！迪克小心翼翼地把那个东西取了出来。
　　“是一本古董书！”他说。
　　“写的什么？”安妮喊道。
　　他们非常小心地翻着书页，因为年代久远，书页已经风干，感觉相当脆，有些书页还落满了灰尘。
　　“我认为这是一本秘方，”安妮说，她敏锐的目光已经扫视了那泛黄、模糊的字迹，“我们给桑德斯太太看一下吧！”
　　于是孩子们把这本书拿给了桑德斯太太，她乐呵呵地看着孩子们意气风发的脸庞，拿起了书来看，却并不如他们想象的兴奋。
　　“没错，”桑德斯太太说，“是本秘方而已。你们看扉页的名字——爱丽丝•玛丽•桑德斯，应该是我的曾祖母。据我所知，她是医学高手，听说她能治愈人类和动物的所有疾病。”
　　“只是很遗憾，现在笔迹难以辨认了，”朱利安失望地说，“这本书都快支离破碎了，年代一定很久远。”
　　“你认为那个隐藏的洞里还有别的东西吗？”安妮问道，“朱利安，你伸手进去试试吧，你的胳膊比迪克的长。”
　　“里面应该没什么东西了，”迪克说，“空间非常小——那个砖块或者石头的后面也就只有几英寸的空间。”
　　“好吧，我试试吧。”朱利安说。其他人都回大厅了。朱利安伸手进去，沿着墙壁摸索到石块掉出来的地方，他将修长的手指伸进去四处摸索，试图找找其他东西。
　　竟然还真有！摸着好像是柔软平滑的皮革一样。朱利安小心翼翼地拿好，生怕又是一件年久易碎的珍宝。
　　“我找到了！”他说，眼睛闪闪发亮，“看——这是什么？”
　　大家都围在一起。“这就像爸爸的烟草袋，”安妮边摸边说，“形状相似，里面还有什么东西吗？”
　　这是一个深棕色的烟草袋，皮革柔软，破旧不堪。朱利安小心翼翼地解开束带，展开皮革。
　　袋子里仍残留了一些发黑的烟草，但还有另一件东西！在最后一个口袋里有一块紧紧卷起的亚麻布料。朱利安把它拿出来，展开平放在大厅的桌子上。
　　孩子们盯着它看，亚麻布上有各种标记，好在黑墨水是不易褪色的，但是他们对标记的含义却毫无头绪。
　　“这不是地图，”朱利安说，“似乎是一种代码，或者某个我们不了解含义的东西，希望我们能解开这其中的谜团。”
　　大家拿这块布毫无办法，年岁久远，还有着解不开的谜团，可他们打定主意一探究竟，于是再次向桑德斯太太求助。桑德斯太太还在研究那本古老的秘方，她抬起头看着兴奋的孩子们，满脸喜悦地说：“这秘方太棒了！文章已经很难辨认了，但这是个关于治疗背部疼痛的偏方，我可以自己试一下，一天下来，我的背总是疼得厉害。就是这个，你们看……”
　　孩子们根本无心听，他们把那块亚麻布料摊开到桑德斯太太的腿上。“快看，桑德斯太太，您知道这个吗？我们在那个凹槽里又找到了一个烟草袋。”
　　桑德斯太太摘下眼镜，擦亮，重新戴上，仔细端详着那块带着奇怪标记的亚麻布，随后摇摇头：“我什么也看不出来，这就是一个烟草袋啊，对了，老头子需要这个，他有个旧的，已经破得不能再破了，虽然这个也很旧了，磨损得挺严重，但总比原先那个好。”
　　“桑德斯太太，这块亚麻布你也要吗？”朱利安焦虑地问。因为他巴不得把这块布带回家去研究，他确信这里面隐藏着一个天大的秘密，一想到桑德斯太太可能需要，他就焦躁不安。
　　“朱利安少爷，如果你喜欢就拿去吧，”桑德斯太太笑嘻嘻地说，“我需要秘方，而老头子可以留着这个烟草袋。如果你想要的话，你就留着那块旧布料吧！啊，是约翰回来了！”
　　她提高了声音，向耳背的老头子喊：“嘿！约翰！给你一个烟草袋。孩子们在大厅那个夹层的凹槽里找到的。”
　　约翰接过来掂量了一下：“这个样式很奇怪，不过总比我现在的好。好了，年轻人，我不想催你们，但现在已经下午一点了，你们最好回家去吃午饭了！”
　　“天哪！”朱利安说，“我们要迟到了！再见，桑德斯太太，谢谢招待，酥饼很好吃，谢谢你把这块亚麻布给了我。我们会尽力弄清楚上面到底是什么，再来告诉你们。嘿，伙计们，蒂米在哪儿？来吧，蒂米，我们要抓紧了！”
　　五个身影飞也似的跑了。因为时间紧急，孩子们只能快跑，没有时间说话。但是他们内心对这个收获颇丰的上午兴奋不已，不吐不快。
　　“我实在不明白这块布料上的标记指的是什么！”朱利安气喘吁吁，“我是说怎么找到答案呢？因为太神秘了。”
　　“我们能告诉别人吗？”迪克问。
　　“当然不行！”乔治说，“我们必须要保密！”
　　“如果安妮再说漏嘴，就像去年夏天那样把她踢到桌子底下去。”朱利安笑着说，可怜的安妮很容易说漏嘴，所以一旦有这个苗头就会被踢。
　　“我一句话都不会说的，”安妮愤愤不平，“你要是敢踢我，我就哭，到时候大人们就会来问了。”
　　朱利安说：“吃完饭我们再研究一下这块布料，我敢打赌，如果我们下定决心，一定会找出真相！”
　　“我们回来了，”乔治说，“赶上了，妈妈，给我们一分钟时间洗手就好！今天我们过得很愉快。”
Chapter Five AN UNPLEASANT WALK
Chapter Five AN UNPLEASANT WALK
　　AFTER dinner the four children went upstairs to the boys' bedroom and spread out the bit of linen ona table there. There were words here and there, scrawled in rough printing. There was the sign of acompass, with E marked clearly for East. There were eight rough squares, and in one of them, right inthe middle, was a cross. It was all very mysterious.
　　'You know, I believe these words are Latin,' said Julian, trying to make them out. 'But I can't readthem properly. And I expect if I could read them, I wouldn't know what they meant. I wish we knewsomeone who could read Latin like this.'
　　'Could your father, George?' asked Anne.
　　'I expect so,' said George. But nobody wanted to ask George's father. He might take the curious oldrag away. He might forget all about it, he might even burn it. Scientists were such queer people.
　　'What about Mr. Roland?' said Dick. 'He's a tutor. He knows Latin.'
　　'We won't ask him till we know a bit more about him,' said Julian, cautiously. 'He seems quite jollyand nice -but you never know. Oh, blow - I wish we could make this out, I really do.'
　　'There are two words at the top,' said Dick, and he tried to spell them out. 'VIA OCCULTA.'
　　'What do you think they could mean, Julian?'
　　'Well - the only thing I can think of that they can mean is - Secret Way, or something like that,'
　　said Julian, screwing up his forehead into a frown.
　　'Secret Way!' said Anne, her eyes shining. 'Oh, I hope it's that! Secret Way! How exciting. What sortof secret way would it be, Julian?'
　　'How do I know, Anne, silly?' said Julian. 'I don't even know that the words are meant to mean"Secret Way". It's really a guess on my part.'
　　'If they did mean that - the linen might have directions to find the Secret Way, whatever it is,'
　　said Dick. 'Oh Julian, isn't it exasperating that we can't read it? Do, do try. You know more Latin thanI do.'
　　'It's so hard to read the funny old letters,' said Julian, trying again. 'No - it's no good at all. I can'tmake them out.'
　　Steps came up the stairs, and the door opened. Mr. Roland looked in.
　　24
　　'Hallo, hallo!' he said. 'I wondered where you all were. What about a walk over the cliffs?'
　　'We'll come,' said Julian, rolling up the old rag.
　　'What have you got there? Anything interesting?' asked Mr. Roland.
　　'It's a -' began Anne, and at once all the others began to talk, afraid that Anne was going to give thesecret away.
　　'It's a wonderful afternoon for a walk.'
　　'Come on, let's get our things on!'
　　'Tim, Tim, where are you?' George gave a piercing whistle. Tim was under the bed and camebounding out. Anne went red as she guessed why all the others had interrupted her so quickly.
　　'Idiot,' said Julian, under his breath. 'Baby.'
　　Fortunately Mr. Roland said no more about the piece of linen he had seen Julian rolling up. He waslooking at Tim.
　　'I suppose he must come,' he said. George stared at him in indignation.
　　'Of course he must!' she said. 'We never never go anywhere without Timothy.'
　　Mr. Roland went downstairs, and the children got ready to go out. George was scowling. The veryidea of leaving Tim behind made her angry.
　　'You nearly gave our secret away, you silly,' said Dick to Anne.
　　'I didn't think,' said the little girl, looking ashamed of herself. 'Anyway, Mr. Roland seems very nice.
　　I think we might ask him if he could help us to understand those funny words.'
　　'You leave that to me to decide,' said Julian, crossly. 'Now don't you dare to say a word.'
　　They all set out, Timothy too. Mr. Roland need not have worried about the dog, for Timothy wouldnot go near him. It was very queer, really. He kept away from the tutor, and took not the slightestnotice of him even when Mr. Roland spoke to him.
　　'He's not usually like that,' said Dick. 'He's a most friendly dog, really.'
　　'Well, as I've got to live in the same house with him, I must try and make him friends with me,'
　　said the tutor. 'Hi, Timothy! Come here! I've got a biscuit in my pocket.'
　　Timothy pricked up his ears at the word 'biscuit' but did not even look towards Mr. Roland. He puthis tail down and went to George. She patted him.
　　'If he doesn't like anyone, not even a biscuit or a bone will make him go to them when he is called,'
　　she said.
　　25
　　Mr. Roland gave it up. He put the biscuit back into his pocket. 'He's a queer-looking dog, isn't he?' hesaid. 'A terrible mongrel! I must say I prefer well-bred dogs.'
　　George went purple in the face. 'He's not queer-looking!' she spluttered. 'He's not nearly so queer-looking as you! He's not a terrible mongrel. He's the best dog in the world!'
　　'I think you are being a little rude,' said Mr. Roland, stiffly. ‘I don't allow my pupils to be cheeky,Georgina.'
　　Calling her Georgina made George still more furious. She lagged behind with Tim, looking as blackas a thundercloud. The others felt uncomfortable. They knew what tempers George got into, and howdifficult she could be. She had been so much better and happier since the summer, when they hadcome to stay for the first time. They did hope she wasn't going to be silly and get into rows. It wouldspoil the Christmas holidays.
　　Mr. Roland took no more notice of George. He did not speak to her, but strode on ahead with theothers, doing his best to be jolly. He could really be very funny, and the boys began to laugh at him.
　　He took Anne's hand, and the little girl jumped along beside him, enjoying the walk.
　　Julian felt sorry for George. It wasn't nice to be left out of things, and he knew how George hatedanything like that. He wondered if he dared to put in a good word for her. It might make thingseasier.
　　'Mr. Roland, sir,' he began. 'Could you call my cousin by the name she likes - George - she simplyhates Georgina. And she's very fond of Tim. She can't bear anyone to say horrid things about him.'
　　Mr. Roland looked surprised. 'My dear boy, I am sure you mean well,' he said, in rather a dry sort ofvoice, 'but I hardly think I want your advice about any of my pupils. I shall follow my own wishes inmy treatment of Georgina, not yours. I want to be friends with you all, and I am sure we shall be - butGeorgina has got to be sensible, as you three are.'
　　Julian felt rather squashed. He went red and looked at Dick. Dick gave him a squeeze on his arm.
　　The boys knew George could be silly and difficult, especially if anyone didn't like her beloved dog -but they thought Mr. Roland might try to be a bit more understanding too. Dick slipped behind andwalked with George.
　　'You needn't walk with me,' said George at once, her blue eyes glinting. 'Walk with your friend Mr.
　　Roland.'
　　'He isn't my friend,' said Dick. 'Don't be silly.'
　　26
　　'I'm not silly,' said George, in a tight sort of voice. 'I heard you all laughing and joking with him.
　　You go on and have a good laugh again. I've got Timothy.'
　　'George, it's Christmas holidays,' said Dick. 'Do let's all be friends. Do. Don't let's spoil Christmas.'
　　I can't like anyone who doesn't like Tim,' said George, obstinately.
　　'Well, after all, Mr. Roland did offer him a biscuit,' said Dick, trying to make peace as hard as hecould.
　　George said nothing. Her small face looked fierce. Dick tried again.
　　'George! Promise to try and be nice till Christmas is over, anyway. Don't let's spoil Christmas, forgoodness' sake! Come on, George.'
　　'All right,' said George, at last. I’ll try.'
　　'Come and walk with us, then,' said Dick. So George caught up the others, and tried not to look toosulky. Mr. Roland guessed that Dick had been trying to make George behave, and he included her inhis talk. He could not make her laugh, but she did at least answer politely.
　　'Is that Kirrin Farm-house?' asked Mr. Roland, as they came in sight of the farm.
　　'Yes. Do you know it?' asked Julian, in surprise.
　　'No, no,' said Mr. Roland, at once. 'I heard of it, and wondered if that was the place.'
　　'We went there this morning,' said Anne. 'It's an exciting place.' She looked at the others, wonderingif they would mind if she said anything about the things they had seen that morning.
　　Julian thought for a moment. After all, it couldn't matter telling him about the stone in the kitchenand the false back to the cupboard. Mrs. Sanders would tell anyone that. He could speak about thesliding panel in the hall too, and say they had found an old recipe book there. He did not need to sayanything about the old bit of marked linen.
　　So he told their tutor about the exciting things they had seen at the old farm-house, but said nothing atall about the linen and its strange markings. Mr. Roland listened with the greatest interest.
　　'This is all very remarkable,' he said. 'Very remarkable indeed. Most interesting. You say the oldcouple live there quite alone?'
　　'Well, they are having two people to stay over Christmas,' said Dick, 'Artists. Julian thought he wouldgo over and talk to them. He can paint awfully well, you know.'
　　27
　　'Can he really?' said Mr. Roland. 'Well, he must show me some of, his pictures. But I don't think he'dbetter go and worry the artists at the farm-house. They might not like it.'
　　This remark made Julian feel obstinate. He made up his mind at once that he would go and talk to thetwo artists when he got the chance! ,
　　It was quite a pleasant walk on the whole except that George was quiet, and Timothy would not goanywhere near Mr. Roland. When they came to a frozen pond Dick threw sticks on it for Tim tofetch. It was so funny to see him go slithering about on his long legs, trying to run properly!
　　Everyone threw sticks for the dog, and Tim fetched all the sticks except Mr. Roland's. When the tutorthrew a stick the dog looked at it and took no more notice. It was almost as if he had said,'What, your stick! No thank you!'
　　'Now, home we go,' said Mr. Roland, trying not to look annoyed with Tim. 'We shall just be in timefor tea!'
5.一次不愉快的散步
　　一次不愉快的散步
　　晚餐后，四个孩子齐聚楼上男孩们的卧室。神秘的亚麻布铺在桌上，上面的文字密密麻麻，印刷粗糙，笔记潦草，其中有一个明显的指南针标志，上面标记的“E”字样明显是指“东方”。此外，亚麻布上还印有八个略显粗糙的正方形，其中一个正中间画了一个十字，看上去神秘莫测。
　　“我确定这是拉丁文，”朱利安试着向大家解释，“但我不会读，如果我能读拉丁文，就会知道这其中的奥秘了。要是我们认识会拉丁文的人就好了。”
　　“你爸爸呢，乔治？”安妮问。
　　“我想他会。”乔治说。但没人想去问乔治的爸爸，他可能会把这块神秘的旧布头没收，然后将这件事忘得干干净净，甚至可能会把这块布烧掉。科学家嘛，就是这么古怪。
　　“罗兰德先生呢？”迪克说，“他是家庭教师，应该懂拉丁文。”
　　“我们不能问他，至少在对他有更深的了解之前不行，”朱利安谨慎地说，“他外表看上去亲切友好，可谁又能保证呢，天哪，真是的——要是我们懂拉丁文该多好。”
　　“顶上这两个字，”迪克试图拼出来，“VIA OCCULTA，你觉得是什么意思，朱利安？”
　　“好吧——我唯一可以想到的就是‘密道’，或类似的意思。”朱利安眉头紧蹙。
　　“密道！”安妮的眼睛闪闪发亮，“哦，我想是这样的！密道！多么激动人心啊，朱利安，会是条什么样的密道呢？”
　　“我怎么知道，安妮，”朱利安无奈，“我并不确定这些词的意思是‘密道’，这只是我的推测。”
　　“如果确实是这个意思，那这上面很可能隐藏着通往密道的途径之类的，”迪克若有所思，“朱利安，读不懂真让人恼火，你倒是再试一下啊！你拉丁文至少比我好吧！”
　　“这些滑稽可笑的古老字母简直像天书一样，”朱利安说着再次尝试起来，“还是不行，这根本就行不通，我不会。”
　　楼梯上传来脚步声，紧接着门开了，罗兰德先生探进头来：“嘿，你们好吗！我一直在找你们，去不去悬崖边散步？”
　　“去。”朱利安边说边卷起那块古老的亚麻布。
　　“你们今天的行程怎么样？有什么有意思的发现吗？”罗兰德先生问。
　　“这是一个——”安妮打算开始滔滔不绝，说时迟那时快，其他人都赶紧插话，害怕安妮说漏嘴。
　　“这是一个适合散步的美好下午。”
　　“出发吧！大家整理一下！”
　　“蒂米，蒂米，你在哪儿？”乔治刺耳的口哨声传来，原本趴在床下的蒂米闻声立马行动起来。
　　安妮脸红了，因为她知道大家为什么急着打断她。
　　“别这样，安妮。”朱利安低声说。
　　幸运的是，对于朱利安卷起的那块亚麻布，罗兰德先生并未多言，他只是看着蒂米说：“我猜它也会跟着来。”
　　乔治盯着他，眼中尽是怒火：“那必须！如果不带蒂米，我们就哪儿也不去。”
　　罗兰德先生下楼去了，孩子们也准备好出门了。乔治眉头紧锁，罗兰德先生不想带蒂米的想法让她气愤不已。
　　“你差点把我们的秘密暴露了，你这个傻瓜。”迪克对安妮说。“我也不想的，”可怜的小安妮惭愧不已，“不管怎么说，罗兰德先生看起来挺好的。我想我们可以问问他是否能帮我们解释一下那些稀奇古怪的文字。”
　　“这个由我来定，”朱利安说，“现在你就把嘴闭紧了。”
　　一行人都出发了，蒂米也一路同行。其实罗兰德先生大可不必因为这只狗而担心，因为蒂米根本不去靠近他。说来奇怪，蒂米离这位家庭教师远远的，即便罗兰德先生对它说话，它也并不在意。
　　“它通常不会这样，它平时对人很友好。”迪克说。
　　“好吧，因为要和它同住一个屋檐下，所以我必须试着和它成为朋友，”罗兰德先生说，“嘿，蒂米！快来！瞧，我的口袋里有一块饼干。”
　　蒂米一听到“饼干”这个词，马上竖起了耳朵，但仅此而已！它甚至看都没看罗兰德先生一眼，尾巴一垂，就跑去找乔治了，乔治宠溺地拍了拍它。乔治自豪地说：“对待不喜欢的人，饼干、骨头都不起作用。”
　　罗兰德先生放弃了，他把饼干放回口袋里：“它长得很奇怪，不是吗？丑八怪似的杂种狗，我还是喜欢血统纯正的好狗。”
　　乔治脸色发青，声嘶力竭：“它一点也不奇怪！哪有你长得奇怪！蒂米才不是丑八怪、杂种狗！它是全世界最——好——的——狗！”
　　“你太没礼貌了，”罗兰德先生语气生硬，“乔治娜，我不允许我的学生如此无礼。”
　　被称作“乔治娜”——这让乔治非常愤怒。她走在蒂米身后，脸色乌青，所有人都感受到了这股怒气。他们了解乔治的暴脾气，知道她已经非常克制了。自从夏天时他们第一次去乔治家做客，乔治已经变得比原来积极、开朗多了。大家心里都在默默祈祷乔治不要再硬碰硬，不然圣诞假期可就泡汤了。
　　罗兰德先生直接忽略了乔治，不再和她说话，他和另外几个孩子一起大步流星地往前走，尽量活跃气氛，逗得朱利安和迪克前仰后合。他拉着安妮的手，小女孩一路蹦蹦跳跳。
　　朱利安在为乔治担心，被排挤的滋味可并不好受，他也知道乔治并不喜欢落单，所以一直在想也许应该为她说说好话、解解围。“罗兰德先生，乔治只是不喜欢‘乔治娜’这个名字，而且她非常喜欢蒂米，受不了别人说蒂米不好。”他说道。
　　罗兰德先生有些吃惊，但声音毫无感情：“我亲爱的孩子，我理解你的好意，但我不认为我需要学生给我建议。在对待乔治娜时，我会遵循自己的意愿，而不是你们的。我想成为你们所有人的朋友，我相信我们会的，但乔治娜必须学会理智，就像你们三人一样。”
　　朱利安被噎得哑口无言，他脸涨得通红，看了看迪克，迪克掐了一下他的胳膊。两个男孩知道是乔治有点固执和难相处——特别是如果有人不喜欢她心爱的蒂米时，但他们觉得罗兰德先生应该更理解和包容乔治才对。迪克不声不响地放慢脚步，落在后面和乔治一起走。
　　“你不用跟我一起走，”乔治立刻揭穿他，水蓝色的眼睛闪闪发光，“跟你们的朋友罗兰德先生一起走就好了。”
　　“他不是我的朋友，你别说傻话了。”迪克安慰乔治。
　　“我才不傻，”乔治声音急促，“我能听到你们都在和他开玩笑，继续啊，快去开怀大笑吧，我有蒂米做伴。”
　　“乔治，这可是圣诞假期啊，”迪克好言相劝，“友好一点，不要毁了圣诞气氛啊。”
　　“我不喜欢任何不喜欢蒂米的人。”乔治固执地说道。
　　“好吧，可毕竟罗兰德先生确实想给它一块饼干。”迪克试图劝和。
　　乔治什么也没说，她的小脸看起来很凶。迪克再次尝试：“乔治！无论如何，在圣诞结束之前，尽量友好一些，不要破坏圣诞的氛围！好吗，乔治？”
　　“好吧……我尽力吧……”乔治终于吐出这几个字。
　　“这就对了，来吧，乔治，跟上大家。”迪克说。于是乔治赶上了大部队，尽量不扫大家的兴。罗兰德先生猜到是迪克劝说乔治好好表现，于是他的话题也将乔治纳入其中。虽然没有把乔治逗笑，但她礼貌地回答了所有问题。
　　“这是科林农场吗？”农场映入眼帘，罗兰德先生问道。
　　“是啊，你知道这里？”朱利安有些吃惊。
　　“不，不，”罗兰德先生立刻回答，“我只是听说过，想知道是不是这里。”
　　“我们今天早上去了那里，”安妮说，“真是个有趣的地方。”她看看其他人，想知道他们是否会介意自己和盘托出。
　　朱利安想了一会儿，觉得告诉罗兰德先生关于厨房里的石头和柜子里的夹层没什么关系。桑德斯太太也并不打算隐瞒这件事。大厅里那块活动的墙板、找到的秘方也没什么关系，只要对那块古老的亚麻布守口如瓶就好。
　　于是朱利安把他们在科林农场的神奇见闻对罗兰德先生叙述了一遍，但并没有提及那块亚麻布和上面的奇怪标记，罗兰德先生听得十分入神。
　　“这一切令人难以置信，”罗兰德先生说，“着实有趣，你们说的那对老夫妻独自住在那里吗？”
　　“不，会有两个人在圣诞节期间住进科林农场，”迪克说，“两位画家，朱利安还想去和他们交流一下，因为他画画可棒啦！”
　　罗兰德先生说：“真的吗？那朱利安可得让我欣赏一下大作啊，但他最好还是不要去农场找那两位画家，他们可能不喜欢被打扰。”
　　这句话让朱利安心生反感，他暗自决心，有机会一定要去找这两位画家！
　　除了乔治话很少，大家都很喜欢和罗兰德先生散步，不过蒂米一直离罗兰德先生远远的。他们路过一个池塘，水面已经结冰，迪克把棍子扔到冰面上，让蒂米去捡。它的四条大长腿在冰面上艰难前行的样子惹得众人捧腹大笑。大家扔的树枝都被一一捡回来——只有罗兰德先生的除外！罗兰德先生扔了一根树枝，蒂米只是看了一眼，一动不动，那副神情仿佛在说：“什么？你的？我才不捡呢！”
　　“好了，我们该回去了，到下午茶时间了。”罗兰德先生尽量不表现出对蒂米的反感。
Chapter Six LESSONS WITH MR. ROLAND
Chapter Six LESSONS WITH MR. ROLAND
　　NEXT morning the children felt a little gloomy. Lessons! How horrid in the holidays! Still, Mr.
　　Roland wasn't so bad. The children had not had him with them in the sitting-room the night before,because he had gone to talk to their uncle. So they were able to get out the mysterious bit of linenagain and pore over it.
　　But it wasn't a bit of good. Nobody could make anything of it at all. Secret Way! What did it mean?
　　Was it really directions for a Secret Way? And where was the way, and why was it secret? It wasmost exasperating not to be able to find out.
　　'I really feel we'll have to ask someone soon,' Julian had said with a sigh. 'I can't bear this mysterymuch longer. I keep on and on thinking of it.'
　　He had dreamt of it too that night, and now it was morning, with lessons ahead. He wondered whatlesson Mr. Roland would take - Latin perhaps. Then he could ask him what the words 'VIAOCCULTA' meant.
　　28
　　Mr. Roland had seen all their reports and had noted the subjects they were weak in. One was Latin,and another was French. Maths were very weak in both Dick's report and George's. Both childrenmust be helped on in those. Geometry was Julian's weakest spot.
　　Anne was not supposed to need any coaching. 'But if you like to come along and join us, I'll give yousome painting to do,' said Mr. Roland, his blue eyes twinkling at her. He liked Anne. She was notdifficult and sulky like George.
　　Anne loved painting. 'Oh, yes,' she said, happily, I’d love to do some painting. I can paint flowers,Mr. Roland. I'll paint you some red poppies and blue cornflowers out of my head.'
　　'We will start at half-past nine,' said Mr. Roland. 'We are to work in the sitting-room. Take yourschool-books there, and be ready punctually.'
　　So all the children were there, sitting round a table, their books in front of them, at half-past nine.
　　Anne had some painting water and her painting-box. The others looked at her enviously. LuckyAnne, to be doing painting whilst they worked hard at difficult things like Latin and maths!
　　'Where's Timothy?' asked Julian in a low voice, as they waited for their tutor to come in.
　　'Under the table,’ said George, defiantly. I’m sure he'll lie still. Don't any of you say anything abouthim. I want him there. I'm not going to do lessons without Tim here.'
　　'I don't see why he shouldn't be here with us,' said Dick. 'He's very very good. Sh! Here comes Mr.
　　Roland.'
　　The tutor came in, his black beard bristling round his mouth and chin. His eyes looked very piercingin the pale winter sunlight that filtered into the room. He told the children to sit down.
　　'I'll have a look at your exercise books first,' he said, 'and see what you were doing last term. Youcome first, Julian.'
　　Soon the little class were working quietly together. Anne was very busy painting a bright picture ofpoppies and cornflowers. Mr. Roland admired it very much. Anne thought he really was very nice.
　　Suddenly there was a huge sigh from under the table. It was Tim, tired of lying so still Mr.
　　Roland looked up, surprised. George at once sighed heavily, hoping that Mr. Roland would think itwas she who had sighed before.
　　'You sound tired, Georgina,' said Mr. Roland. 'You shall all have a little break at eleven.'
　　George frowned. She hated being called Georgina. She put her foot cautiously on Timothy to warnhim not to make any more noises. Tim licked her foot.
　　29
　　After a while, just when the class was at its very quietest, Tim felt a great wish to scratch himselfvery hard on his back. He got up. He sat down again with a thump, gave a grunt, and began to scratchhimself furiously. The children all began to make noises to hide the sounds that Tim was making.
　　George clattered her feet on the floor. Julian began to cough, and let one of his book slip to theground. Dick jiggled the table and spoke to Mr. Roland.
　　'Oh dear, this sum is so hard; it really is! I keep doing it and doing it, and it simply won't come right!'
　　'Why all this sudden noise?' said Mr. Roland in surprise. 'Stop tapping the floor with your feet,Georgina.’
　　Tim settled down quietly again. The children gave a sigh of relief. They became quiet, and Mr.
　　Roland told Dick to come to him with his maths book.
　　The tutor took it, and stretched his legs out under the table, leaning back to speak to Dick. To hisenormous surprise his feet struck something soft and warm - and then something nipped him sharplyon the ankle! He drew in his feet with a cry of pain.
　　The children stared at him. He bent down and looked under the table. 'It's that dog,' he said, indisgust. 'The brute snapped at my ankles. He has made a hole in my trousers. Take him out,Georgina.'
　　Georgina said nothing. She sat as though she had not heard.
　　'She won't answer if you call her Georgina,' Julian reminded him.
　　'She'll answer me whatever I call her,' said Mr. Roland, in a low and angry voice. 'I won't have thatdog in here. If you don't take him out this very minute, Georgina, I will go to your father.'
　　George looked at him. She knew perfectly well that if she didn't take Tim out, and Mr. Roland wentto her father, he would order Timothy to live in the garden kennel, and that would be dreadful. Therewas absolutely nothing to be done but obey. Red in the face, a huge frown almost hiding her eyes,she got up and spoke to Tim.
　　'Come on, Tim! I'm not surprised you bit him. I would, too, if I were a dog!'
　　'There is no need to be rude, Georgina,' said Mr. Roland, angrily.
　　The others stared at George. They wondered how she dared to say things like that. When she gotfierce it seemed as if she didn't care for anyone at all!
　　'Come back as soon as you have put the dog out,' said Mr. Roland.
　　30
　　George scowled, but came back in a few minutes. She felt caught. Her father was friendly with Mr.
　　Roland, and knew how difficult George was - if she behaved as badly as she felt she would like to, itwould be Tim who would suffer, for he would certainly be banished from the house. So for Tim'ssake George obeyed the tutor - but from that moment she disliked him and resented him bitterly withall her fierce little heart.
　　The others were sorry for George and Timothy, but they did not share the little girl's intense dislike ofthe new tutor. He often made them laugh. He was patient with their mistakes. He was willing to showthem how to make paper darts and ships, and to do funny little tricks. Julian and Dick thought thesewere fun, and stored them up to try on the other boys when they went back to school.
　　After lessons that morning the children went out for half an hour in the frosty sunshine. George calledTim.
　　'Poor old boy!' she said. 'What a shame to turn you out of the room! Whatever did you snap at Mr.
　　Roland for? I think it was a very good idea, Tim - but I really don't know what made you!'
　　'George, you can't play about with Mr. Roland,' said Julian. 'You'll only get into trouble. He's tough.
　　He won't stand much from any of us. But I think he'll be quite a good sport if we get on the right sideof him.'
　　'Well, get on the right side of him if you like,' said George, in rather a sneering voice. I’m not goingto. If I don't like a person, I don't - and I don't like him.'
　　'Why? Just because he doesn't like Tim?' asked Dick.
　　'Mostly because of that - but because he makes me feel prickly down my back,' said George, 'I don'tlike his nasty mouth.'
　　'But you can't see it,' said Julian. 'It's covered with his moustache and beard.'
　　'I've seen his lips through them,' said George, obstinately. 'They're thin and cruel. You look and see. Idon't like thin-lipped people. They are always spiteful and hard. And I don't like his cold eyes either.
　　You can suck up to him all you like. I shan't.'
　　Julian refused to get angry with the stubborn little girl. He laughed at her. 'We're not going to suck upto him,' he said. 'We're just going to be sensible, that's all. You be sensible too, George, old thing.'
　　But once George had made up her mind about something nothing would alter her. She cheered upwhen she heard that they were all to go Christmas shopping on the bus that afternoon -31
　　without Mr. Roland! He was going to watch an experiment that her father was going to show him.
　　'I will take you into the nearest town and you shall shop to your heart's content,' said Aunt Fanny tothe children. 'Then we will have tea in a tea-shop and catch the six o'clock bus home.'
　　This was fun. They caught the afternoon bus and rumbled along the deep country lanes till they got tothe town. The shops looked very gay and bright. The children had brought their money with them,and were very busy indeed, buying all kinds of things. There were so many people to get presentsfor!
　　'I suppose we'd better get something for Mr. Roland, hadn't we?' said Julian.
　　'I'm going to,' said Anne. I’m going to buy him a packet of cigarettes. I know the kind he smokes.'
　　'Fancy buying Mr. Roland a present!' said George, in her scornful voice.
　　'Why shouldn't she, George?' asked her mother, in surprise. 'Oh dear, I hope you are going to besensible about him, and not take a violent dislike to the poor man. I don't want him to complain toyour father about you.'
　　'What are you going to buy for Tim, George?' asked Julian, changing the subject quickly.
　　'The largest bone the butcher has got,' said George. 'What are you going to buy him?'
　　'I guess if Tim had money, he would buy us each a present,' said Anne, taking hold of the thick hairround Tim's neck, and pulling it lovingly. 'He's the best dog in the world!'
　　George forgave Anne for saying she would buy Mr. Roland a present, when the little girl said thatabout Tim! She cheered up again and began to plan what she would buy for everyone.
　　They had a fine tea, and caught the six o'clock bus back. Aunt Fanny went to see if the cook hadgiven the two men their tea. She came out of the study beaming.
　　'Really, I've never seen your uncle so jolly,' she said to Julian and Dick. 'He and Mr. Roland aregetting on like a house on fire. He has been showing your tutor quite a lot of his experiments. It's nicefor him to have someone to talk to that knows a little about these things.'
　　Mr. Roland played games with the children that evening. Tim was in the room, and the tutor triedagain to make friends with him, but the dog refused to take any notice of him.
　　'As sulky as his little mistress!' said the tutor, with a laughing look at George, who was watching Timrefuse to go to Mr. Roland, and looking rather pleased about it. She gave the tutor a scowl and saidnothing.
　　32
　　'Shall we ask him whether "VIA OCCULT" really does mean "Secret Way" or not, tomorrow?'
　　said Julian to Dick, as they undressed that night. 'I'm just longing to know if it does. What do youthink of Mr. Roland, Dick?'
　　'I don't really quite know,' said Dick. 'I like lots of things about him, but then I suddenly don't likehim at all. I don't like his eyes. And George is quite right about his lips. They are so thin there'shardly anything of them at all.'
　　'I think he's all right,' said Julian. 'He won't stand any nonsense, that's all. I wouldn't mind showinghim the whole piece of rag and asking him to make out its meaning for us.'
　　'I thought you said it was to be a proper secret,' said Dick.
　　'I know - but what's the use of a secret we don't know the meaning of ourselves?' said Julian. I’ll tellyou what we could do - ask him to explain the words to us, and not show him the bit of linen.
　　'But we can't read some of the words ourselves,' said Dick. 'So that's no use. You'd have to show himthe whole thing, and tell him where we got it.'
　　'Well, I'll see,' said Julian, getting into bed.
　　The next day there were lessons again from half-past nine to half-past twelve. George appearedwithout Tim.
　　She was angry at having to do this, but it was no good being defiant and refusing to come to lessonswithout Tim. Now that he had snapped at Mr. Roland, he had definitely put himself in the wrong, andthe tutor had every right to refuse to allow him to come. But George looked very sulky indeed.
　　In the Latin lesson Julian took the chance of asking what he wanted to know. 'Please, Mr.
　　Roland,' he said, 'could you tell me what "VIA OCCULTA" means?'
　　"VIA OCCULTA"?' said Mr. Roland, frowning. 'Yes - it means "Secret Path", or "Secret Road".
　　A hidden way - something like that. Why do you want to know?'
　　All the children were listening eagerly. Their hearts thumped with excitement. So Julian had beenright. That funny bit of rag contained directions for some hidden way, some secret path -but where to! Where did it begin, and end?
　　'Oh - I just wanted to know,' said Julian. 'Thank you, sir.'
　　He winked at the others. He was as excited as they were. If only, only they could make out the rest ofthe markings, they might be able to solve the mystery. Well - perhaps he would ask Mr.
　　Roland in a day or two. The secret must be solved somehow.
　　33
　　'The "Secret Way",' said Julian to himself, as he worked out a problem in geometry. 'The "SecretWay". I'll find it somehow.'
6.罗兰德先生的课
　　罗兰德先生的课
　　第二天清早起床，孩子们就有点沮丧了，因为要开始上课了！
　　假期里还要上课，多扫兴！还好罗兰德先生不是那么令人讨厌。前一晚，他们并没有在客厅里见到他，他去找昆廷叔叔聊天了，于是孩子们再次放心地拿出那块神秘的亚麻布研究起来。
　　可是一点进展都没有，密道！到底是什么意思？这真的是密道的地图吗？这条密道究竟在哪里，为什么是个秘密？一连串的疑问得不到解决，压得人透不过气来。
　　“我真的觉得我们得求助，”朱利安叹了口气，“我迫不及待想知道答案，却百思不得其解。”那晚他做梦都在解密，甚至到了早上，马上要上课了，朱利安还在想也许今天罗兰德先生会教拉丁语呢，这样就可以顺理成章地问他“VIA OCCULTA”的意思。
　　罗兰德先生看过所有人的成绩单，注意到他们较弱的学科，一个是拉丁语，一个是法语，另外迪克和乔治的数学成绩都很差，这两个孩子的数学必须加强，几何是朱利安最薄弱的地方。
　　安妮可以不用上课。“但如果你想一起来，我会给你布置一些画画的作业。”罗兰德先生说，他注视着安妮的蓝眼睛闪闪发亮。他很喜欢安妮，因为她不像乔治那样难以接近。
　　安妮确实喜欢画画，于是愉快地答应：“好啊，罗兰德先生，我会画红色的罂粟花和蓝色的矢车菊。”
　　“那我们从九点半正式开始，”罗兰德先生说，“就在客厅，你们带着课本准时过去。”
　　上课时间到了，孩子们已经到齐，围着桌子坐了一圈，课本摆在面前。安妮的面前是水彩和画笔，这让其他三人好生羡慕，幸运的安妮，竟然可以在他们和拉丁语、数学这些天书搏斗时画画！
　　“蒂米在哪儿？”趁罗兰德先生没来，朱利安低声问。
　　“在桌子底下，”乔治说，“我相信它可以在下面安静地趴着，如果你们任何人敢说一个不字，就等着瞧吧。我一定要它陪着我，如果没有蒂米，我是不会上课的。”
　　“我不明白为什么它不应该和我们在一起上课，”迪克说，“它那么可爱，嘘，罗兰德先生来了。”
　　罗兰德先生来了，浓密乌黑的胡子布满嘴巴和下巴四周，冬日黯淡的阳光透进房间，他的眼神显得尤为尖锐，他让孩子们坐好。“我先看看你们的练习册，”他说，“看看你们上学期学了什么。
　　你先来，朱利安。”
　　很快，这个小班级就安静下来。安妮忙于画一幅鲜艳的罂粟花和矢车菊图。罗兰德先生给予了很高的评价，这让安妮认为他真的很好。
　　突然，桌子下面传来哈欠声。一定是蒂米累了！罗兰德先生惊讶地抬起头。乔治立刻打了个哈欠，希望罗兰德先生能以为那个哈欠是她打的。
　　“你好像很累，乔治娜，”罗兰德先生说，“11点钟的时候你们可以休息一下。”
　　乔治眉头紧锁，她讨厌被称为“乔治娜”。她小心翼翼地抬脚放在蒂米身上，警告它不要再发出任何声音，蒂米舔了舔她的脚。
　　过了一会儿，恰恰在课堂最安静的时候，蒂米突然迫切地想挠挠后背，于是它起身，又砰的一声坐下，发出咕噜声，开始疯狂地挠痒。孩子们不得不开始发出各种声音来隐藏蒂米的动静。
　　乔治在地板上跺脚，朱利安开始咳嗽，假装课本掉到了地上。
　　迪克晃动着桌子跟罗兰德先生搭话：“天哪，这道函数题太难了！我不停地算啊算，还是得不出答案！”
　　“为什么突然发出这么多声音？”罗兰德先生惊讶地说，“不要一直跺地板，乔治娜。”
　　蒂米又安静下来，孩子们松了一口气，也安静了下来。罗兰德先生让迪克把数学书拿过来，他接过书，双腿伸进桌面下，身体后倚着跟迪克说话。意外的是，他感觉踢到了什么柔软而温暖的东西——下一秒脚踝被什么东西狠狠咬了一下！他痛得大叫一声！
　　孩子们都盯着罗兰德先生，他弯下腰，看着桌子下面。“是那只狗，”他的声音充满厌恶，“这个畜生咬了我的脚踝，把我的裤子咬破了，快把它赶出去，乔治娜！”
　　乔治娜无动于衷，好像什么也没听到。
　　“如果你叫她‘乔治娜’，她是不会搭理的。”朱利安提醒他。
　　“无论我怎么称呼她，她都得回答，”罗兰德先生声音不大，却怒气冲冲，“课堂上不可以有狗，如果你现在不带它出去，乔治娜，我就告诉你爸爸。”
　　乔治看着他。她非常清楚，如果她没有把蒂米带出去，而罗兰德先生去找她爸爸，可怜的蒂米就只能被赶到院子里，再也不能进来了。除了服从之外，毫无办法。乔治气得满脸通红，眉头紧锁，她起身对蒂米说：“来吧，蒂米！咬得好！如果我是你，我也会咬他！”
　　“乔治娜，不可以这么粗鲁。”罗兰德先生怒气冲冲。
　　其他人都盯着乔治，不相信她竟敢这么说。当她被激怒时，她会不管不顾！
　　“把狗带出去，就赶紧回来。”罗兰德先生又说。
　　乔治皱着眉头，但几分钟后还是乖乖回来了。她觉得自己被抓到了命门，罗兰德先生和爸爸相处得很好，爸爸清楚地知道乔治的软肋——如果她为所欲为，受到惩罚的就是蒂米，因为它肯定会被赶出家门。所以，为了蒂米，乔治只能服从罗兰德先生。但从那一刻起，她就对罗兰德先生充满了厌恶感，一直憎恨着他。
　　朱利安、迪克和安妮为乔治和蒂米感到遗憾，但他们并没有像乔治那样对罗兰德先生抱有强烈不满，他经常逗大家笑，对大家的错误也很有耐心，还教大家制作纸飞镖和纸船，还有一些有趣的小把戏。朱利安和迪克尤其喜欢这些，他们期待着开学回到学校把这些用到其他男孩身上。
　　下课后，孩子们去外面，在清冷的阳光下散步了半小时。乔治安慰蒂米：“可怜的蒂米！真的不想把你赶出房间，可是你为什么突然咬了他？不管为什么，你干得好，蒂米。但我真的好奇为什么。”
　　“乔治，你不能总和罗兰德先生对着干，”朱利安说，“否则你只会麻烦不断，他很强硬，不会对我们一味地容忍，但是如果我们站在他那边，那他会是个好相处的人。”
　　“好吧，你们愿意的话，就和他站在一起好了，”乔治语气里充满了不屑，“我绝对不会，对于我不喜欢的人，我绝对不会妥协。他就是我不喜欢的人。”
　　“为什么？就因为他不喜欢蒂米？”迪克问。
　　“主要是因为这个——也因为每次看到他都让我觉得后背生疼，尤其讨厌他那张恶毒的嘴。”乔治说。
　　“但是你怎么能看到他的嘴呢，”朱利安说，“他的嘴都被胡子挡住了。”
　　“我能看到他的嘴唇，”乔治很固执，“他的嘴唇特别薄，你看看就明白了。我不喜欢嘴唇薄的人，我觉得他们大多心肠很恶毒，而且还很难相处，我也不喜欢他冷漠的眼神。不过你们都可以去讨好他，随你们，但我不会的。”
　　朱利安没有生乔治的气，只是取笑她：“我们不是讨好他，只是我们学着明智起来而已，你也是明智的，乔治老兄。”
　　但是，一旦乔治认定了，八匹马也拉不回来。不过当她听说下午大家可以坐公共汽车去镇上买圣诞礼物时，她马上欢呼雀跃起来，因为罗兰德先生不去——昆廷叔叔要给他展示一个实验。
　　范妮婶婶说：“我带你们去最近的镇上，大家想买什么就买什么，然后我们找家茶店喝下午茶，再赶傍晚六点的公共汽车回家。”
　　侦探团的小伙伴们心情很好，公共汽车沿着乡间小路隆隆地行驶着。镇上的商店看起来五光十色，孩子们都带着钱，忙得不可开交，他们要给好多人准备礼物！
　　“我想我们最好给罗兰德先生买点什么，对吧？”朱利安提议。
　　“我也打算给他买呢。”安妮说。
　　“真行，要给罗兰德先生送礼物！”乔治轻蔑地说。
　　“乔治，为什么不能给罗兰德先生买礼物呢？”范妮婶婶有些吃惊，“亲爱的，我希望你慢慢地对他有所了解，不要对这个可怜的人有偏见，而且我不想他向你爸爸告状。”
　　“你打算给蒂米买什么，乔治？”朱利安马上转移了话题。
　　“肉食店里最大的骨头，”乔治说，“你打算给蒂米买什么？”
　　“我想，如果蒂米有钱，它也会给我们买一件礼物，”安妮抚摸着蒂米脖子上厚厚的毛发，亲昵地拉着它，“它可是世界上最好的狗狗！”
　　听到安妮夸奖蒂米，乔治就原谅安妮要给罗兰德先生买礼物的事了。乔治再次高兴起来，开始计划为每个人买礼物。
　　他们享用过美味的下午茶，赶六点的公共汽车顺利回到家。范妮婶婶去了趟书房，看厨师有没有给两位先生准备茶点。走出书房，她一脸开心：“真的，我从来没有见过你们昆廷叔叔这么高兴，”她对朱利安和迪克说，“他和罗兰德先生在里面忙得热火朝天。他一直在向你们的家庭教师展示自己的很多实验，他很高兴有人和他有共同语言，并对这些事情有所了解。”
　　晚上，罗兰德先生和孩子们一起玩了游戏，蒂米也在房里，罗兰德先生再次尝试和它亲近，但是蒂米并不搭理他。
　　“像它的小女主人一样爱生闷气！”家庭教师笑着说。乔治看着蒂米不理罗兰德先生的样子，心里美滋滋的，她瞪了罗兰德先生一眼，什么也没说。
　　晚上睡觉前，朱利安对迪克说：“明天我们可以问他‘VIAOCCULTA’是不是真的意味着‘密道’的意思吧？我只是想确认一下，你怎么看罗兰德先生，迪克？”
　　“我真的不太清楚，”迪克说，“他的很多方面我都很喜欢，但后来我突然觉得自己一点也不喜欢他了。我不喜欢他的眼睛，乔治说不喜欢他的嘴唇——确实，他的嘴唇特别薄，几乎就没有。”
　　“我认为他还好，”朱利安说，“他只是不喜欢我们这样疯玩而已。我不介意让他看看那块布，问问他其中的含义。”
　　“我记得你说过这是个秘密。”迪克说。
　　“这的确是个秘密——可我们自己都不知道其中的含义，那这秘密有什么用？”朱利安说，“我们只是告诉他那些文字，请他解释那些文字的意思，不用给他看那块亚麻布。”
　　“但我们自己不认识所有的字，”迪克说，“所以一点用也没有，我们必须给他讲清楚来龙去脉。”
　　“好吧，我会看着办的。”朱利安说着便睡了。
　　第二天上午也是九点半到十二点半上课，乔治没有带蒂米一起来。对此她很生气，但如果硬要带着蒂米，那就是挑衅，恐怕她也得不到半点好处。而且蒂米咬了罗兰德先生，是蒂米有错在先，罗兰德先生完全有权拒绝让它进来，可是乔治依旧非常生气。
　　拉丁语课上，朱利安抓住机会问：“请问罗兰德先生，您能告诉我‘VIA OCGULTA’是什么意思吗？”
　　“VIA OCCULTA？”罗兰德先生皱着眉头说，“是‘密道’或‘秘密路径’的意思，它代表一种隐藏起来的道路之类的意思。你为什么突然问这个？”
　　侦探团的小伙伴们都在认真地听着，心中很兴奋。所以朱利安的猜测是对的，但是这个密道究竟在哪里，又通向哪里呢？
　　“哦，我只是突然间好奇，”朱利安说，“谢谢您，先生。”他对其他人眨眨眼，因为朱利安也和他们一样兴奋。如果可以弄清楚其余的标记，他们或许能解开这个谜团。好吧，也许会在一两天内再问问罗兰德先生。这个秘密必须解开。
　　“密道”，朱利安对自己说，就像他解开一道难解的几何题，“密道，我一定会找到它。”
Chapter Seven DIRECTIONS FOR THE SECRET WAY
Chapter Seven DIRECTIONS FOR THE SECRET WAY
　　FOR the next day or two the four children did not really have much time to think about the SecretWay, because Christmas was coming near, and there was a good deal to do.
　　There were Christmas cards to draw and paint for their mothers and fathers and friends. There wasthe house to decorate. They went out with Mr. Roland to find sprays of holly, and came home laden.
　　'You look like a Christmas card yourselves,' said Aunt Fanny, as they walked up the garden path,carrying the red-berried holly over their shoulders. Mr. Roland had found a group of trees with tuftsof mistletoe growing from the top branches, and they had brought some of that too. Its berries shonelike pale green pearls.
　　'Mr. Roland had to climb the tree to get this,' said Anne. 'He's a good climber - as good as a monkey.'
　　Everyone laughed except George. She never laughed at anything to do with the tutor. They alldumped their loads down in the porch, and went to wash. They were to decorate the house thatevening.
　　'Is Uncle going to let his study be decorated too?' asked Anne. There were all kinds of strangeinstruments and glass tubes in the study now, and the children looked at them with wonder wheneverthey ventured into the study, which was very seldom.
　　'No, my study is certainly not to be messed about,' said Uncle Quentin, at once. 'I wouldn't hear of it.'
　　'Uncle, why do you have all these funny things in your study?' asked Anne, looking round with wideeyes.
　　Uncle Quentin laughed. I’m looking for a secret formula!' he said.
　　'What's that?' said Anne.
　　34
　　'You wouldn't understand,' said her uncle. 'All these "funny things" as you call them, help me in myexperiments, and I put down in my book what they tell me - and from all I learn I work out a secretformula, that will be of great use when it is finished.'
　　'You want to know a secret formula, and we want to know a secret way,' said Anne, quite forgettingthat she was not supposed to talk about this.
　　Julian was standing by the door. He frowned at Anne. Luckily Uncle Quentin was not paying anymore attention to the little girl's chatter. Julian pulled her out of the room.
　　'Anne, the only way to stop you giving away secrets is to sew up your mouth, like Brer Rabbitwanted to do to Mister Dog!' he said.
　　Joanna the cook was busy baking Christmas cakes. An enormous turkey had been sent over fromKirrin Farm, and was hanging up in the larder. Timothy thought it smelt glorious, and Joanna wasalways shooing him out of the kitchen.
　　There were boxes of crackers on the shelf in the sitting-room, and mysterious parcels everywhere. Itwas very, very Christmassy! The children were happy and excited.
　　Mr. Roland went out and dug up a little spruce fir tree. 'We must have a Christmas tree,’ he said.
　　'Have you any tree-ornaments, children?'
　　'No,' said Julian, seeing George shake her head.
　　I’ll go into the town this afternoon and get some for you,' promised the tutor. 'It will be fun dressingthe tree. We'll put it in the hall, and light candles on it on Christmas Day after tea.
　　Who's coming with me to get the candles and the ornaments?'
　　'I am!' cried three children. But the fourth said nothing. That was George. Not even to buy tree-ornaments would the obstinate little girl go with Mr. Roland. She had never had a Christmas treebefore, and she was very much looking forward to it - but it was spoilt for her because Mr.
　　Roland bought the things that made it so beautiful.
　　Now it stood in the hall, with coloured candles in holders clipped to the branches, and gay shiningornaments hanging from top to bottom. Silver strands of frosted string hung down from the brancheslike icicles, and Anne had put bits of white cotton-wool here and there to look like snow. It really wasa lovely sight to see.
　　'Beautiful!' said Uncle Quentin, as he passed through the hall, and saw Mr. Roland hanging the lastornaments on the tree. 'I say - look at the fairy doll on the top! Who's that for? A good girl?'
　　35
　　Anne secretly hoped that Mr. Roland would give her the doll. She was sure it wasn't for George -and anyway, George wouldn't accept it. It was such a pretty doll, with its gauzy frock and silverywings.
　　Julian, Dick and Anne had quite accepted the tutor now as teacher and friend. In fact, everyone had,their uncle and aunt too, and even Joanna the cook. George, of course, was the only exception, andshe and Timothy kept away from Mr. Roland, each looking as sulky as the other whenever the tutorwas in the room.
　　'You know, I never knew a dog could look so sulky!' said Julian, watching Timothy. 'Really, hescowls almost like George.'
　　'And I always feel as if George puts her tail down like Tim, when Mr. Roland is in the room,'
　　giggled Anne.
　　'Laugh all you like,' said George, in a low tone. 'I think you're beastly to me. I know I'm right aboutMr. Roland. I've got a feeling about him. And so has Tim.'
　　'You're silly, George,' said Dick. 'You haven't really got a Feeling - it's only that Mr. Roland willkeep calling you Georgina and putting you in your place, and that ' he doesn't like Tim. I dare say hecan't help disliking dogs. After all, there was once a famous man called Lord Roberts who couldn'tbear cats.'
　　'Oh well, cats are different,' said George. 'If a person doesn't like dogs, especially a dog like ourTimothy, then there really must be something wrong with him.'
　　'It's no use arguing with George,' said Julian, 'Once she's made up her mind about something, shewon't budge!'
　　George went out of the room in a huff. The others thought she was behaving rather stupidly.
　　'I'm surprised really,' said Anne. 'She was so jolly last term at school. Now she's gone all queer, ratherlike she was when we first knew her last summer.'
　　'I do think Mr. Roland has been decent digging up the Christmas tree and everything,' said Dick.
　　'I still don't like him awfully much sometimes, but I think he's a sport. What about asking him if hecan read that old linen rag for us - 1 don't think I'd mind him sharing our secret, really.'
　　'I would love him to share it,' said Anne, who was busy doing a marvellous Christmas card for thetutor. 'He's most awfully clever. I'm sure he could tell us what the Secret Way is. Do let's ask him.'
　　36
　　'All right,' said Julian. 'I'll show .him the piece of linen. It's Christmas Eve tonight. He will be with usin the sitting-room, because Aunt Fanny is going into the study with Uncle Quentin to wrap uppresents for all of us!'
　　So, that evening, before Mr. Roland came in to sit with them, Julian took out the little roll of linenand stroked it out flat on the table. George looked at it in surprise.
　　'Mr. Roland will be here in a minute,' she said. 'You'd better put it away quickly.'
　　'We're going to ask him if he can tell us what the old Latin words mean,' said Julian.
　　'You're not!' cried George, in dismay. 'Ask him to share our secret! However can you?'
　　'Well, we want to know what the secret is, don't we?' said Julian. 'We don't need to tell him where wegot this or anything about it except that we want to know what the markings mean.
　　We're not exactly sharing the secret with him - only asking him to use his brains to help us.'
　　'Well, I never thought you'd ask him,' said George. ‘And he'll want to know simply everything aboutit, you just see if he won't! 'He's terribly snoopy.'
　　'Whatever do you mean?' said Julian, in surprise. 'I don’t think he's a bit snoopy.'
　　'I saw him yesterday snooping round the study when no one was there,' said George. 'He didn't seeme outside the window with Tim. He was having a real poke round.’
　　'You know how interested he is in your father's work,' said Julian. 'Why shouldn't he look at it?
　　Your father likes him too. You're just seeing what horrid things you can find to say about Mr.
　　Roland.'
　　'Oh shut up, you two,’ said Dick. 'It's Christmas Eve. Don't let's argue or quarrel or say beastlythings.' Just at that moment the tutor came into the room, 'All as busy as bees?' he said, his mouthsmiling beneath its moustache. 'Too busy to have a game of cards, I suppose?'
　　'Mr. Roland, sir,' began Julian, 'could you help us something? We've got an old bit of linen here withodd markings on it. The words seem to be in some sort of Latin and we can't make them out.'
　　George gave an angry exclamation as she saw Julian push the piece of linen over towards the tutor.
　　She went of the room and shut the door with a bang. Tim was with her.
　　'Our sweet- tempered Georgina doesn't seem to be very friendly tonight,’ remarked Mr. Roland,pulling the bit of linen towards him. 'Where in the world did you get this? What an odd thing!'
　　37
　　Nobody answered. Mr. Roland studied the roll of linen, and then gave an exclamation. 'Ah - I seewhy you wanted to know the meaning of those Latin words the other day - the ones that meant"hidden path", you remember. They are at the top of this linen roll.'
　　'Yes,' said Dick. All the children leaned over towards Mr. Roland, hoping he would be able tounravel a little of the mystery for them.
　　'We just want to know the meaning of the words, sir,' said Julian.
　　'This is really very interesting,' said the tutor, puzzling over the linen. 'Apparently there are directionshere for finding the opening or entrance of a secret path or road.'
　　'That's what we thought!' cried Julian, excitedly. 'That's exactly what we thought. Oh sir, do read thedirections and see what you make of them.'
　　'Well, these eight squares are meant to represent wooden boards or panels, I think,' said the tutor,pointing to the eight rough squares drawn on the linen. 'Wait a minute - I can hardly read some of thewords. This is most fascinating, Solum lapideum - paries ligneus - and what's this - cellula- yes, cellula!'
　　The children hung on his words. 'Wooden panels!' That must mean panels somewhere at KirrinFarmhouse.
　　Mr. Roland frowned down at the old printed words. Then he sent Anne to borrow a magnifying glassfrom her uncle. She came back with it, and the four of them looked through the glass, seeing thewords three times as clearly now.
　　'Well,' said the tutor at last, 'as far as I can make out the direction mean this: a room facing east; eightwooden panels, with an opening somewhere to be found in that marked one; a stone floor -yes, I think that's right, a stone floor; and a cupboard. It all sounds most extraordinary and verythrilling. Where did you get this from?'
　　'We just found it,' said Julian, after a pause. 'Oh Mr. Roland, thanks awfully. We could never havemade it out by ourselves. I suppose the entrance to the Secret Way is in a room facing east then.'
　　'It looks like it,' said Mr. Roland, poring over the linen roll again. 'Where did you say you found this?'
　　'We didn't say,' said Dick. 'It's a secret really, you see.'
　　'I think you might tell me,' said the tutor, looking at Dick with his brilliant blue eyes. 'I can be trustedwith secrets. You've no idea how many queer secrets I know.'
　　38
　　'Well,' said Julian, 'I don't really see why you shouldn't know where we found this, Mr. Roland.
　　We found it at Kirrin Farmhouse, in an old tobacco pouch. I suppose the Secret Way beginssomewhere there! I wonder where and wherever can it lead to?'
　　'You found it at Kirrin Farmhouse!' exclaimed Mr. Roland. 'Well, well - I must say that seems to bean interesting old place. I shall have to go over there one day.'
　　Julian rolled up the piece of linen and put it into his pocket. 'Well, thank you, sir,' he said.
　　'You've solved a bit of the mystery for us but set us another puzzle! We must look for the entrance ofthe Secret Way after Christmas, when we can walk over to Kirrin Farmhouse.’
　　I’ll come with you,' said Mr. Roland. 'I may be able to help a little. That is - if you don't mind mehaving a little share in this exciting secret.'
　　'Well - you've been such a help in telling us what the words mean,' said Julian; 'we'd like you to comeif you want to, sir.'
　　'Yes, we would,' said Anne.
　　'We'll go and look for the Secret Way, then,' said Mr. Roland. 'What fun we shall have, tapping roundthe panels, waiting for a mysterious dark entrance to appear!'
　　'I don't suppose George will go,' Dick murmured to Julian. 'You shouldn't have said Mr. Roland couldgo with us, Ju. That means that old George will have to be left out of it. You know how she hatesthat.'
　　'I know,' said Julian, feeling uncomfortable. 'Don't let's worry about that now though. George mayfeel different after Christmas. She can't keep up this kind of behaviour for ever!'
7.密道之谜
　　密道之谜
　　在接下来的一两天里，这四个孩子并没有太多时间去考虑密道，因为圣诞节即将到来，他们有很多事要做：要给父母和朋友制作圣诞贺卡，要装饰房子，他们还和罗兰德先生一同出去捡冬青树枝，满载而归。
　　看着孩子们扛着挂满红色浆果的冬青树枝，走在花园小路上，范妮婶婶说：“你们看起来就像圣诞贺卡一样呢。”罗兰德先生发现了几棵顶部长满槲寄生的树，于是他们也带回了一些，那些浆果像淡绿色的珍珠一样闪耀。
　　“罗兰德先生只能爬到树上去才能拿到，”安妮说，“他爬树的本领不错，和猴子一样好。”
　　除乔治外，每个人都笑了。只要是与家庭教师有关的事情，她从来都不笑。他们把今天的收获堆在门廊，就去洗手了。他们打算晚上开始装饰房子。
　　“昆廷叔叔的书房要装饰吗？”安妮问道。因为昆廷叔叔的书房里有各式各样稀奇古怪的仪器和玻璃导管，孩子们每次冒险进入书房时都惊奇不已。
　　“不，我的书房不行，”昆廷叔叔立刻说道，“绝对不行。”
　　“昆廷叔叔，为什么您的书房里有这些有趣的东西？”安妮问道，睁大眼睛环顾四周。
　　昆廷叔叔笑了：“我正在寻找秘密配方！”
　　“那是什么？”安妮说。
　　“你不明白，”昆廷叔叔说，“你所说的这些‘有趣的东西’，都能在我的实验中派上用场，我会在书中记下它们告诉我的内容，并结合我学到的所有知识研究出一个秘方，等到大功告成时将会有巨大的作用。”
　　“您想找到一个秘方，我们想找到一个密道。”安妮说，她完全忘记了不应该提起这件事。
　　朱利安就站在门外，他对安妮皱皱眉。幸运的是，昆廷叔叔并没有过多关注小女孩的喋喋不休，朱利安赶紧把她拉出房间。
　　“安妮，阻止你泄露秘密的唯一办法是把你的嘴缝起来！”他说。
　　厨师乔安娜忙着焙烤圣诞蛋糕，科林农场送来了一只巨大的火鸡，就挂在储藏室里，蒂米闻着香气而来，乔安娜却总把它赶出厨房。
　　起居室的架子上放着好几盒姜饼，到处都是神秘的包裹，非常有圣诞气氛！孩子们为即将到来的圣诞节感到兴奋。
　　罗兰德先生出去挖了一棵小云杉树，他说：“我们必须装饰一棵圣诞树，你们有装饰品吗？”
　　“没有。”朱利安说道，他看到乔治摇了摇头。
　　“今天下午我去镇上买一些给你们，”罗兰德先生承诺，“装饰圣诞树很有趣。我们把它放在大厅里，在圣诞节后点上蜡烛。谁愿意和我一起去买蜡烛和装饰品？”
　　“我！”三个孩子喊道，但第四个什么都没说，那是乔治。她甚至连购买圣诞树的装饰品都不愿意和罗兰德先生一起去。其实乔治以前从来没有见过圣诞树，内心是非常期待的，但因为罗兰德先生要买那些装饰品，这让她感到非常扫兴。
　　现在圣诞树就摆在大厅里，彩色的蜡烛夹在树枝上，精美闪亮的饰物从上到下悬挂着。银色的磨砂绳子像冰柱一样从树枝上垂下来，安妮在四周装点了一些白色的棉花，就像雪花一样。这真是一个可爱的景象。
　　“很漂亮！”昆廷叔叔穿过大厅时说道，他看到罗兰德先生把最后几个饰物挂在树上，“我说——最顶部的仙女娃娃！是给谁的？一个好女孩吗？”
　　安妮隐隐地希望罗兰德先生能将仙女娃娃送给她。她确信这个娃娃不适合乔治，而且无论如何，乔治也不会接受它。这是一个漂亮的娃娃，有着薄纱连衣裙和银色的翅膀。
　　朱利安、迪克和安妮现在已经完全接受了罗兰德先生，他亦师亦友。事实上，每个人都是如此，包括昆廷叔叔和范妮婶婶，还有厨师乔安娜。当然，乔治是唯一的例外，她和蒂米离罗兰德先生远远的，每当罗兰德先生在房间里时，她就闷闷不乐。
　　“你知道，我从来不知道一只狗能看起来如此阴沉！”朱利安看着蒂米，“真的，它几乎像乔治一样皱着眉。”
　　“当罗兰德先生在房间里时，我总觉得乔治像蒂米一样耷拉着她的尾巴。”安妮笑着说。
　　“你们喜欢笑就笑吧，”乔治低声说，“你们不相信我，但我知道我对罗兰德先生的看法是对的，我有预感，蒂米也是。”
　　“你真傻，乔治，”迪克说，“那不是预感。只是罗兰德先生一直叫你‘乔治娜’，教给你规矩，还有他不喜欢蒂米，我敢说这是因为他不喜欢狗。毕竟，曾经有一位著名的罗伯茨勋爵根本接受不了猫。”
　　“猫怎么能和狗相提并论，”乔治说，“如果一个人不喜欢狗，特别是蒂米这样的狗，那么他绝对有问题。”
　　“和乔治吵是没有用的，”朱利安说，“一旦她决定了某件事，她是不会让步的！”
　　乔治愤怒地走出了房间，留下其他三人面面相觑。“我真的觉得很奇怪，”安妮说，“她在学校性格很好的，可是现在她变得很奇怪，就像去年夏天第一次认识她时一样。”
　　“我认为罗兰德先生在挖圣诞树以及做每一件事时都很用心，”迪克说，“虽然有时候我不太喜欢他，但我认为他是个好人。
　　我们不如问问他是否可以为我们解释一下那块亚麻布上的文字吧，我不介意跟他分享我们的秘密，真的。”
　　“我也希望能和他分享，”安妮说，她正忙着为罗兰德先生做一张奇妙的圣诞贺卡，“他非常聪明，我相信他能告诉我们密道是什么，我们去问他吧。”
　　“好吧，”朱利安说，“我会告诉他这块亚麻布的事，今晚是平安夜，他会和我们一起待在客厅里，因为范妮婶婶会去书房和昆廷叔叔一起包裹送给我们的礼物！”
　　所以那天晚上，在罗兰德先生来之前，朱利安拿出那一小块亚麻布，把它平放在桌子上。乔治惊讶地看着那块亚麻布：“你疯了吗？罗兰德先生马上就到，快把它收起来。”
　　朱利安说：“我们要问他是否可以告诉我们这些拉丁文的意思。”
　　“不行！”乔治沮丧地喊，“绝对不能让他分享我们的秘密！不行！”
　　“可是，我们迫切想知道密道是什么，不是吗？”朱利安说，“除了我们想知道的含义之外，我们不需要告诉他在哪里找到这个，也不需要说其他事，我们并没有完全跟他分享这个秘密——只是需要他的知识来帮助我们。”
　　“好吧，我从没想过你竟然要问他，”乔治说，“他一定会刨根问底的，你等着瞧吧！他非常贪婪。”
　　“我不明白你的意思，”朱利安惊讶地说，“但我不觉得他贪婪。”
　　“昨天我亲眼看到他在书房里四处窥探，”乔治说，“我和蒂米就在窗外，他没有看到，他是真的在东翻西找。”
　　“你知道的，他对你爸爸的研究很感兴趣，”朱利安不以为然，“所以他看看也不奇怪啊。你爸爸也很喜欢他。你只是对他存有偏见罢了，然后诋毁他。”
　　“喂，你们两个，别吵了，”迪克说，“今天平安夜，大家不要吵架，别再说不开心的事。”
　　这时，罗兰德先生走进了房间。“所有人都像蜜蜂一样忙着，”他说，胡子下是一张微笑的嘴，“不如我们玩纸牌游戏好吗？”
　　“罗兰德先生，”朱利安说，“您能帮助我们吗？我们这里有一块旧亚麻布，上面有些标记。这些词似乎是拉丁文，我们不懂。”
　　当乔治看到朱利安把那块亚麻布向罗兰德先生展示时，她愤怒地惊呼起来，起身离开了房间。门砰的一声关上了，蒂米也随她而去。
　　“我们的乔治娜小姐今晚似乎不太友善，”罗兰德先生说着把那块亚麻布向自己这边拽了一下，“你们在哪儿找到这么奇怪的东西？”
　　但没有人回答。
　　罗兰德先生研究了亚麻布，然后发出一声惊呼：“啊——我知道为什么那天你想知道那些拉丁文字的含义——意味着‘密道’那些，你还记得吗，这块亚麻卷的顶部就是那些字母。”
　　“是的。”迪克说。三人都向罗兰德先生身边靠过去，希望他能解开这些谜团。
　　“我们只是想知道这些词的含义，先生。”朱利安说。
　　“这真的非常有趣，”罗兰德先生对亚麻布迷惑不解，“显然，这里有方向指引，可以找到密道的入口或者通道。”
　　“我们也是这么想！”朱利安兴奋地喊道，“这正是我们的想法，哦，先生，请再仔细阅读一下说明，您有什么看法？”
　　“好吧，我想，这八个正方形代表木板或板子，”罗兰德先生指着亚麻布上画的八个粗糙的正方形说，“等一下，我还是看不懂其中的一些话。这真是令人费解，Solum lapideum——paries ligneus——这是什么？cellula——是的，cellula！”
　　孩子们一言不发。“木板！”这肯定意味着密道的入口就在科林农场的某个地方。
　　罗兰德先生对这些古老的印刷文字皱起眉头，他让安妮从昆廷叔叔那里借来一个放大镜，他们四个人透过放大镜看着，终于能辨认清楚了。
　　“好吧，”罗兰德先生终于说，“依我看，这个方向意味着——朝向东方的房间；八块木板，在某个地方有一个开口，做了标记；还有石头地板——是的，我认为就是这样的，石头地板，还有一个柜子。我知道这一切听起来又神秘又让人激动，不过你们是从哪儿找到的？”
　　“我们也是刚刚发现，”朱利安停顿了一下，“哦，罗兰德先生，非常感谢，靠我们自己永远想不出，我想密道的入口就在朝东的房间里。”
　　“看起来是这样，”罗兰德先生说着再次仔细研究亚麻布，“你说你们是在哪儿找到的？”
　　“我们什么都没说，”迪克说，“这是个秘密。”
　　“我想你们可以告诉我，”罗兰德先生用他炯炯有神的蓝眼睛看着迪克，“我可是个可靠的人，绝对不会泄露秘密，你们不知道我了解多少不为人知的秘密。”
　　“好吧，”朱利安说，“我们没有理由瞒着您，罗兰德先生。这是在科林农场找到的一个旧的烟草袋里发现的。我猜密道的入口也在那里的某个地方！我很好奇它究竟会通向哪里。”
　　“你们在科林农场找到的！”罗兰德先生大声说道，“好吧，好吧。我必须说科林农场是一个古老、神秘的地方，有机会我也要去看一下。”
　　朱利安卷起亚麻布，放进口袋里：“谢谢您，罗兰德先生，为我们解开了秘密，但又给我们出了另一个难题！我们必须在圣诞节后寻找密道的入口，到时我们要找时间去科林农场。”
　　“我和你们一起去，”罗兰德先生说，“也许我能帮上忙，我是说，如果你们不介意跟我分享这个令人兴奋的秘密。”
　　“当然，您帮我们解开了这些词的含义就是帮了大忙，”朱利安说，“如果您愿意，我们欢迎您一起，先生。”
　　“是的，我们欢迎。”安妮说。
　　“那么，我们就去寻找密道，”罗兰德先生说，“那将多么有趣啊，轻轻敲一下木板，然后一个神秘的黑暗入口出现在面前！”
　　“我觉得乔治不会去，”迪克对朱利安低声说，“你不应该说罗兰德先生可以和我们一起去，朱利安。这样乔治又得被孤立，你知道她讨厌被孤立。”
　　“我知道，”朱利安也感觉不太舒服，“不过现在先别担心了，也许圣诞节后乔治就冷静下来了，她不可能永远这样！”
Chapter Eight WHAT HAPPENED ON CHRISTMAS NIGHT
Chapter Eight WHAT HAPPENED ON CHRISTMAS NIGHT
　　IT was great fun on Christmas morning. The children awoke early and tumbled out of bed to look atthe presents that were stacked on chairs near by. Squeals and yells of delight came from everyone.
　　'Oh! a railway station! Just what I wanted! Who gave me this marvellous station?'
　　'A new doll - with eyes that shut! I shall call her Betsy-May. She looks just like a Betsy-May!'
　　39
　　'I say - what a whopping great book - all about aeroplanes. From Aunt Fanny! How decent of her!'
　　'Timothy! Look what Julian has given you - a collar with big brass studs all round - you will begrand. Go and lick him to say thank you!'
　　'Who's this from? I say, who gave me this? Where's the label? Oh - from Mr. Roland. How decent ofhim! Look, Julian, a pocket-knife with three blades!'
　　So the cries and exclamations went on, and the four excited children and the equally-excited dogspent a glorious hour before a late Christmas breakfast, opening all kinds and shapes of parcels.
　　The bedrooms were in a fine mess when the children had finished!
　　'Who gave you that book about dogs, George?' asked Julian, seeing rather a nice dog-book lying onGeorge's pile.
　　'Mr. Roland,' said George, rather shortly. Julian wondered if George was going to accept it. He ratherthought she wouldn't. But the little girl, defiant and obstinate as she was, had made up her mind not tospoil Christmas Day by being 'difficult'. So, when the others thanked the tutor for their things she tooadded her thanks, though in rather a stiff little voice.
　　George had not given the tutor anything, but the others had, and Mr. Roland thanked them all veryheartily, appearing to be very pleased indeed. He told Anne that her Christmas card was the nicest hehad ever had, and she beamed at him with joy.
　　'Well, I must say it's nice to be here for Christmas!' said Mr. Roland, when he and the others weresitting round a loaded Christmas table, at the mid-day dinner. 'Shall I carve for you, Mr.
　　Quentin? I'm good at that!'
　　Uncle Quentin handed him the carving knife and fork gladly. 'It's nice to have you here,' he saidwarmly. 'I must say you've settled in well - I'm sure we all feel as if we've known you for ages!'
　　It really was a jolly Christmas Day. There were no lessons, of course, and there were to be none thenext day either. The children gave themselves up to the enjoyment of eating a great deal, suckingsweets, and looking forward to the lighting of the Christmas tree.
　　It looked beautiful when the candles were lighted. They twinkled in the darkness of the hall, and thebright ornaments shone and glowed. Tim sat and looked at it, quite entranced.
　　'He likes it as much as we do,' said George. And indeed Tim had enjoyed the whole day just as muchas any of the children.
　　40
　　They were all tired out when they went to bed. 'I shan't be long before I'm asleep,' yawned Anne.
　　'Oh, George - it's been fun, hasn't it? I did like the Christmas tree.'
　　'Yes, it's been lovely,' said George, jumping into bed. 'Here comes Mother to say good night.
　　Basket, Tim, basket!'
　　Tim leapt into his basket by the window. He was always there when George's mother came in to saygood night to the girls but as soon as she had gone downstairs, the dog took a flying leap and landedon George's bed. There he slept, his head curled round her feet.
　　'Don't you think Tim ought to sleep downstairs tonight?' said George's mother. 'Joanna says he atesuch an enormous meal in the kitchen that she is sure he will be sick.'
　　'Oh no, Mother!' said George, at once. 'Make Tim sleep downstairs on Christmas night?
　　Whatever would he think?'
　　'Oh, very well,' said her mother, with a laugh. 'I might have known it was useless to suggest it.
　　Now go to sleep quickly, Anne and George - it's late and you are all tired.'
　　She went into the boys' room and said good night to them too. They were almost asleep.
　　Two hours later everyone else was in bed. The house was still and dark. George and Anne sleptpeacefully in their small beds. Timothy slept too, lying heavily on George's feet.
　　Suddenly George awoke with a jump. Tim was growling softly! He had raised his big shaggy headand George knew that he was listening.
　　'What is it, Tim?' she whispered. Anne did not wake. Tim went on growling softly. George sat up andput her hand on his collar to stop him. She knew that if he awoke her father, he would be cross.
　　Timothy stopped growling now that he had roused George. The girl sat and wondered what to do. Itwasn't any good waking Anne. The little girl would be frightened. Why was Tim growling?
　　He never did that at night!
　　'Perhaps I'd better go and see if everything is all right,' thought George. She was quite fearless, andthe thought of creeping through the still, dark house did not disturb her at all. Besides she had Tim!
　　Who could be afraid with Tim beside them!
　　She slipped on her dressing-gown. 'Perhaps a log has fallen out of one of the fire-places and a rug isburning,' she thought, sniffing as she went down the stairs. ‘It would be just like Tim to smell it andwarn us!'
　　41
　　With her hand on Tim's head to warn him to be quite quiet, George crept softly through the hall to thesitting-room. The fire was quite all right there, just a red glow. In the kitchen all was peace too. Tim'sfeet made a noise there, as his claws rattled against the linoleum.
　　A slight sound came from the other side of the house. Tim growled quite loudly, and the hairs on theback of his neck rose up. George stood still. Could it possibly be burglars?
　　Suddenly Timothy shook himself free from her fingers and leapt across the hall, down a passage, andinto the study beyond! There was the sound of an exclamation, and a noise as if someone was fallingover.
　　'It is a burglar!' said George, and she ran to the study. She saw a torch shining on the floor, droppedby someone who was even now struggling with Tim.
　　George switched on the light, and then looked with the greatest astonishment into the study. Mr.
　　Roland was there in his dressing-gown, rolling on the floor, trying to get away from Timothy, who,although not biting him, was holding him firmly by his dressing-gown.
　　'Oh - it's you, George! Call your beastly dog off!' said Mr. Roland, in a low and angry voice. 'Do youwant to rouse all the household?'
　　'Why are you creeping about with a torch?' demanded George.
　　'I heard a noise down here, and came to see what it was,' said Mr. Roland, sitting up and trying tofend off the angry dog. 'For goodness' sake, call your beast off.'
　　'Why didn't you put on the light?' asked George, not attempting to take Tim away. She was verymuch enjoying the sight of an angry and frightened Mr. Roland.
　　'I couldn't find it,' said the tutor. 'It's on the wrong side of the door, as you see.'
　　This was true. The switch was an awkward one to find if you didn't know it. Mr. Roland tried to pushTim away again, and the dog suddenly barked.
　　'Well - he'll wake everyone!' said the tutor, angrily. 'I didn't want to rouse the house. I thought I couldfind out for myself if there was anyone about - a burglar perhaps. Here comes your father!'
　　George's father appeared, carrying a large poker. He stood still in astonishment when he saw Mr.
　　Roland on the ground and Timothy standing over him.
　　'What's all this?' he exclaimed. Mr. Roland tried to get up, but Tim would not let him. George's fathercalled to him sternly.
　　'Tim! Come here, sir!'
　　42
　　Timothy glanced at George to see if his mistress agreed with her father's command. She said nothing.
　　So Timothy took no notice of the order and merely made a snap at Mr. Roland's ankles.
　　'That dog's mad!' said Mr. Roland, from the floor. 'He's already bitten me once before, and now he'strying to do it again!'
　　'Tim! Will you come here, sir!' shouted George's father. 'George, that dog is really disobedient.
　　Call him off at once.'
　　'Come here, Tim!' said George, in a low voice. The dog at once came to her, standing by her sidewith the hairs on his neck still rising up stiffly. He growled softly as if to say, 'Be careful, Mr.
　　Roland, be careful!'
　　The tutor got up. He was very angry indeed. He spoke to George's father.
　　'I heard some sort of a noise and came down with my torch to see what it was,' he said. 'I thought itcame from your study, and knowing you kept your valuable books and instruments here, I wonderedif some thief was about. I had just got down, and into the room, when that dog appeared fromsomewhere and got me down on the ground! George came along too, and would not call him off.'
　　'I can't understand your behaviour, George; I really can't,' said her father, angrily. 'I hope you are notgoing to behave stupidly, as you used to behave before your cousins came last summer. And what isthis I hear about Tim biting Mr. Roland before?'
　　'George had him under the table during lessons,' said Mr. Roland. 'I didn't know that, and when Istretched out my legs, they touched Tim, and he bit me. I didn't tell you before, sir, because I didn'twant to trouble you. Both George and the dog have tried to annoy me ever since I have been here.'
　　'Well, Tim must go outside and live in the kennel,' said George's father. 'I won't have him in thehouse. It will be a punishment for him, and a punishment for you too, George. I will not have thiskind of behaviour. Mr. Roland has been extremely kind to you all.'
　　'I won't let Tim live outside,' said George furiously. 'It's such cold weather, and it would simply breakhis heart.'
　　'Well, his heart must be broken then,' said her father. 'It will depend entirely on your behaviour fromnow on whether Tim is allowed in the house at all these holidays. I shall ask Mr. Roland each dayhow you have behaved. If you have a bad report, then Tim stays outside. Now you know! Go back tobed but first apologize to Mr. Roland!'
　　43
　　'I won't!' said George, and choked by feelings of anger and dismay, she tore out of the room and upthe stairs. The two men stared after her.
　　'Let her be,' said Mr. Roland. 'She's a very difficult child - and has made up her mind not to like me,that's quite plain. But I shall be very glad, sir, to know that that dog isn't in the house. I'm not at allcertain that Georgina wouldn't set him on me, if she could!'
　　'I'm sorry about all this,' said George's father. 'I wonder what the noise was that you heard - a logfalling in the grate I expect. Now - what am I to do about that tiresome dog tonight? Go and take himoutside, I suppose!'
　　'Leave him tonight,' said Mr. Roland. 'I can hear noises upstairs - the others are awake by now!
　　Don't let's make any more disturbance tonight.'
　　'Perhaps you are right,' said George's father, thankfully. He didn't at all want to tackle a defiant littlegirl and an angry big dog in the middle of a cold night!
　　The two men went to bed and slept. George did not sleep. The others had been awake when she gotupstairs, and she had told them what had happened.
　　'George! You really are an idiot!' said Dick. 'After all, why shouldn't Mr. Roland go down if he hearda noise! You went down! Now we shan't have darling old Tim in the house this cold weather!'
　　Anne began to cry. She didn't like hearing that the tutor she liked so much had been knocked downby Tim, and she hated hearing that Tim was to be punished.
　　'Don't be a baby,' said George. 'I'm not crying, and it's my dog!'
　　But, when everyone had settled down again in bed, and slept peacefully, George's pillow was verywet indeed. Tim crept up beside her and licked the salt tears off her cheek. He whined softly. Timwas always unhappy when his little mistress was sad.
8.圣诞夜惊魂
　　圣诞夜惊魂
　　圣诞节的早晨如此美好。孩子们早早醒来，从床上连滚带爬地起来，冲向堆放在椅子上的礼物。每个人都发出尖叫声和欢呼声。
　　“哦！玩具火车站！正是我梦寐以求的！是谁送给我这个神奇的玩具火车站？”
　　“一个新玩偶——可以眨眼睛的！我要给她起名贝齐妹妹，她看起来就像贝齐妹妹！”
　　“这本书太棒了，里面有关于所有飞机的记载。是范妮婶婶送的！她真是心思细腻！”
　　“蒂米！快看朱利安给你的礼物——装饰着大黄铜铆钉的领结，戴上它你肯定很精神，快去舔舔他感谢一下！”
　　“这是谁的礼物？谁给了我这个？标签在哪里？哦，是罗兰德先生。他品味不错！看，朱利安，一把有三个刀片的小刀！”
　　尖叫声和感叹声不绝于耳，疯狂侦探团的小伙伴们在推迟的圣诞早餐前花了一个小时，打开各式各样的礼物。等到礼物全部拆完，卧室已经一团乱！
　　“谁给你那本关于狗的书，乔治？”朱利安问道。他看到一本漂亮的关于狗的书放在乔治的礼物堆上。
　　“罗兰德先生。”乔治一语带过。朱利安想知道乔治是否会接受它，他甚至认为乔治不会。但这个固执乖张的小女孩，显然已经下定决心不要因为“特立独行”而破坏圣诞氛围。因此，当其他人感谢罗兰德先生时，她也表达了谢意，尽管声音仍然相当僵硬。
　　乔治没有给罗兰德先生准备礼物，但是其他人都准备了。罗兰德先生衷心地感谢他们，看起来非常高兴。他告诉安妮，她亲手制作的圣诞贺卡是他拥有的最好的圣诞贺卡，安妮高兴地笑了。
　　“好吧，我必须说圣诞节来到这里真好！”罗兰德先生和其他人一起围坐在圣诞餐桌前享用丰盛的午餐，“昆廷先生，我来为你雕花吧？我很擅长！”
　　于是昆廷叔叔欣喜地递给他雕刻刀和叉子。“你能来这里真好，”他热情地说，“我必须说你已经完全融入了，我们有种相见恨晚的感觉！”
　　这真是一个快乐的圣诞节，没有任何课程，第二天也不会有。
　　孩子们很开心，享受着糖果带来的甜蜜，期待着点亮圣诞树。
　　当所有的蜡烛都被点燃，那景象真是漂亮极了！
　　黑暗的大厅中闪烁着烛光，映衬着饰物闪闪发光。蒂米坐在那儿看着这一切，非常高兴。
　　“蒂米和我们一样喜欢圣诞树。”乔治说。事实上，蒂米和所有孩子一样享受了这一整天的欢乐。
　　到了睡觉时间，大家都筋疲力尽。“我一定躺下就睡着了，”安妮打了个哈欠，“哦，乔治，今天真有趣，对吗？我太喜欢这棵圣诞树了。”
　　“是的，很可爱，”乔治也蹦到床上，“妈妈来说晚安了，快去篮子里，蒂米，篮子！”
　　于是蒂米从窗边跳进篮子里。每次范妮婶婶进来跟女孩们说晚安时，它总是趴在篮子里，一旦听到她下楼的脚步声，它又会立马飞奔到乔治床上。它一直都是蜷缩在乔治脚下睡的。
　　“你不觉得蒂米今晚应该在楼下睡吗？”范妮婶婶说，“乔安娜说它今天在厨房里吃了这么多，搞不好它会生病。”
　　“哦，不，妈妈！”乔治立刻说，“让蒂米在圣诞节晚上睡在楼下吗？它会怎么想？”
　　“哦，好吧，”范妮婶婶笑着说，“我知道这建议没用，快睡吧，安妮和乔治。已经很晚了，你们都累了。”
　　她去了男孩们的房间，和他们说晚安。他们几乎快睡着了。
　　两个小时过去了，所有人都睡了，屋子里一片黑暗和寂静。乔治和安妮在小床上安静地睡着。蒂米也睡了，整个身体压在乔治的脚上。乔治突然惊醒！因为蒂米在轻轻地咆哮！它警醒地抬着头，乔治知道它在仔细听。
　　“怎么了，蒂米？”乔治压低声音说。还好，安妮没被吵醒。蒂米还在轻声咆哮。乔治坐起来，把手放在蒂米身上阻止它。如果它吵醒了爸爸，那它可就吃不了兜着走了。
　　乔治醒了，蒂米也就不再咆哮了。乔治坐在床上，想着该做些什么。还好安妮还没有醒，不然会被吓到的。为什么蒂米会咆哮起来？它从来没有在晚上这样做过！
　　“或许我最好去看看。”乔治想。她毫无畏惧，在这栋黑暗的房子里潜行的想法也没有吓退她，因为她有蒂米！有蒂米在，谁会害怕？
　　她穿着睡衣溜了出去。“说不定有块木头从壁炉里掉了下来，点着了地毯。”乔治一边想，一边走下楼梯，仔细地闻着空气里有没有异味，就像蒂米那样！
　　她一边用手按着蒂米的头，警告它要保持安静，一边轻轻地穿过大厅走到客厅。壁炉里的火势没问题，只是闪着红色的火光。厨房里一切正常。蒂米的爪子碰到了油毡，发出了声响。
　　此时房子的另一边传来轻微的声音。蒂米大声咆哮起来，脖子后面的毛发警觉地立了起来。乔治站着一动不动。难道是有贼吗？
　　突然，蒂米从乔治手中挣脱，穿过大厅，沿着小过道，直接冲进了书房！书房里传来一声尖叫，紧接着是有人摔倒的声音。
　　“一定是有贼！”乔治说，迅速跑去书房。她看到一个手电筒掉在地板上，还有一个人影正在与蒂米纠缠。乔治打开灯，大吃一惊！罗兰德先生穿着睡袍，在地板上滚动，试图挣脱蒂米，蒂米虽然没有咬他，却紧紧地扯着他的长袍。
　　“哦，是你，乔治！管好你的狗！”罗兰德先生低声愤怒地说道，“你想吵醒所有人吗？”
　　“你为什么拿着手电筒在这儿？”乔治问。
　　“我听到这里有声音，来看看发生了什么，”罗兰德先生坐起来，试图抵挡那只愤怒的狗，“管好你的狗。”
　　“那你为什么不开灯？”乔治问。她并没有试图把蒂米带走。她非常喜欢看到如此愤怒、受惊的罗兰德先生。
　　“我找不到，”罗兰德先生说，“你看，开关在门的另一侧。”
　　这倒是真的。如果事先不知道，这个开关很难找到。罗兰德先生试图再次推开蒂米，蒂米突然大叫起来。
　　“好吧，它会吵醒所有人的！”罗兰德先生生气地说，“我可不想吵醒这个房子里的人。我想我可以自己找出真相，看看是否有人溜了进来，也许是贼，你爸爸来了！”
　　昆廷叔叔拿着一根拨火棍进来。当他看到罗兰德先生坐在地上，蒂米站在罗兰德先生身旁时，他惊讶地愣住了。
　　“这是怎么回事？”他大声说道。罗兰德先生再次试图站起来，但蒂米不会放过他。昆廷叔叔厉声说：“蒂米！快过来！”
　　蒂米瞥了一眼乔治，想看它的主人是否同意。乔治什么也没说。因此，蒂米并没有在意这个命令，对罗兰德先生的脚踝做出撕咬的动作。
　　“那狗疯了！”罗兰德先生在地板上说，“它之前已经咬了我一次，现在它又想再咬一次！”
　　“蒂米！你不过来吗？”昆廷叔叔又喊，“乔治，那只狗真是不听话，马上管好它。”
　　“来吧，蒂米！”乔治低声说道。蒂米立刻来到她身边，脖子上的毛发仍然竖立起来，轻声咆哮，仿佛在说：“小心点，罗兰德先生！”
　　罗兰德先生终于起身，他非常生气，对昆廷叔叔解释：“我听到有异响，就带着手电筒来看看，我觉得声音从书房传来，我知道你珍贵的书籍和工具都在这里，所以我想是不是有小偷，只是这只狗突然出现把我扑倒在地，我也是刚进书房！然后乔治就来了，却对她的狗不做管教。”
　　“我真的不能理解你的行为，乔治，”昆廷叔叔暴怒，“我不希望你再变回以前的样子，不希望你再变回去年夏天朱利安他们来之前的样子。我听说蒂米之前咬过罗兰德先生？”
　　罗兰德先生马上说：“乔治在课堂上让蒂米趴在桌下，我不知道，所以我无意中伸出双腿时，碰到了蒂米，它就咬了我一下。先生，我没有告诉你，因为我不想麻烦你。但自从我来到这里以后，乔治和狗都试图惹怒我。”
　　“好吧，蒂米必须到院子里住狗窝，”昆廷叔叔说，“我不会让它进屋了，这对它来说是一种惩罚，对你也是一种惩罚，乔治。我绝对不允许这种行为，罗兰德先生对你们所有人都非常友善。”
　　“我不会让蒂米住在外面，”乔治愤怒地说，“现在天气这么冷，这会让它伤心的。”
　　“好吧，它一定会伤心，”昆廷叔叔说，“蒂米在假期时是否被允许进入房子里，完全取决于你从现在开始的行为。我每天都会问罗兰德先生你的表现如何，如果你表现不好，那蒂米就得待在外面。
　　好了，回去睡觉，但你必须先向罗兰德先生道歉！”
　　“绝不！”乔治因愤怒和沮丧而产生了一种窒息感。她疲惫地走出房间上了楼，昆廷先生和罗兰德先生在后面盯着她。
　　“随她去吧，”罗兰德先生说，“她是个倔强的孩子，显而易见，她已经下定决心不会喜欢我。先生，但我很高兴那只狗不能进入房子里了，因为我不确定乔治娜会不会让它把我撕了！”
　　“我很抱歉，”昆廷叔叔说，“我想知道你听到的是什么声音，我以为有根木头掉到炉火上了。那今晚我该拿这只烦人的狗怎么办呢？我想，今晚就把它关到门外吧！”
　　“今晚算了吧，”罗兰德先生说，“我能听到楼上的声音，其他人现在都被吵醒了！今晚就别再弄出动静了。”
　　“你是对的。”昆廷叔叔很感激，这么寒冷的夜晚，他根本不想再去费劲对付一个叛逆的小女孩和一只愤怒的大狗！两人也回卧室去了，但乔治还没睡，她上楼时其他人都醒了，于是她给所有人讲了一遍事情的来龙去脉。
　　“乔治！你真傻！”迪克说，“毕竟，如果罗兰德先生听到吵闹声，他为什么不能下楼呢！结果你下楼把一切都搞砸了，现在怎么办，这么冷的天气，我们亲爱的蒂米就要待在外面了！”安妮开始哭了起来，她不愿听到自己这么尊敬的老师被蒂米扑倒，但也讨厌听到蒂米要受到惩罚。
　　“别哭了，”乔治说，“我都没哭，这可是我的狗！”
　　但是，当其他人都回到床上安静地睡下时，乔治的枕头却湿了。蒂米爬到她身边，轻轻舔掉她脸颊上咸咸的泪水，轻声哼哼。
　　小主人这么伤心，蒂米也跟着伤心。
Chapter Nine A HUNT FOR THE SECRET WAY
Chapter Nine A HUNT FOR THE SECRET WAY
　　THERE were no lessons the next day. George looked rather pale, and was very quiet. Tim wasalready out in the yard-kennel, and the children could hear him whining unhappily. They were allupset to hear him.
　　44
　　'Oh, George, I'm awfully sorry about it all,' said Dick. 'I wish you wouldn't get so fierce about things.
　　You only get yourself into trouble - and poor old Tim.'
　　George was full of mixed feelings. She disliked Mr. Roland so much now that she could hardly bearto look at him - and yet she did not dare to be openly rude and rebellious because she was afraid thatif she was, the tutor would give her a bad report, and perhaps she would not be allowed even to seeTimothy. It was very hard for a defiant nature like hers to force herself to behave properly.
　　Mr. Roland took no notice of her at all. The other children tried to bring George into their talks andplans, but she remained quiet and uninterested.
　　'George! We're going over to Kirrin Farmhouse today,' said Dick. 'Coming? We're going to try andfind the entrance to the Secret Way. It must start somewhere there.'
　　The children had told George what Mr. Roland had said about the piece of marked linen. They hadall been thrilled about this, though the excitements of Christmas Day had made them forget about itfor a while.
　　'Yes - of course I'll come,' said George, looking more cheerful. 'Timothy can come too. He wants awalk.'
　　But when the little girl found that Mr. Roland was also going, she changed her mind at once. Not foranything would she go with the tutor! No - she would go for a walk alone with Timothy.
　　'But, George - think of the excitement we'll have trying to find the Secret Way,' said Julian, takinghold of her arm. George wrenched it away.
　　I’m not going if Mr. Roland is,' she said, obstinately, and the others knew that it was no good tryingto coax her.
　　'I shall go alone with Tim,' said George. 'You go off together with your dear Mr. Roland!'
　　She set out with Timothy, a lonely little figure going down the garden path. The others stared afterher. This was horrid. George was being more and more left out, but what could they do about it?
　　'Well, children, are you ready?' asked Mr. Roland. 'You start off by yourselves, will you? I'll meetyou at the farmhouse later. I want to run down to the village first to get something.'
　　So the three children set off by themselves, wishing that George was with them. She was nowhere tobe seen.
　　45
　　Old Mr. and Mrs. Sanders were pleased to see the three children, and sat them down in the bigkitchen to eat ginger buns and drink hot milk.
　　'Well, have you come to find a few more secret things?' asked Mrs. Sanders, with a smile.
　　'May we try?' asked Julian. 'We're looking for a room facing east, with a stone floor, and panelling!'
　　'All the rooms downstairs have stone floors,' said Mrs. Sanders. 'You hunt all you like, my dears.
　　You won't do any damage, I know. But don't go into the room upstairs with the cupboard that has afalse back, will you, or the one next to it! Those are the rooms the two artists have.'
　　'All right,' said Julian, rather sorry that they were unable to fiddle about with the exciting cupboardagain. 'Are the artists here, Mrs. Sanders? I'd like to talk to them about pictures. I hope one day I'll bean artist too.'
　　'Dear me, is that so?' said Mrs Sanders. 'Well, well - it's always a marvel to me how people make anymoney at painting pictures.'
　　'It isn't making money that artists like, so much as the painting of the pictures,' said Julian, lookingrather wise. That seemed to puzzle Mrs. Sanders even more. She shook her head and laughed.
　　'They're queer folk!' she said. 'Ah well - you go along and have a hunt for whatever it is you want tofind. You can't talk to the two artists today though, Master Julian - they're out.'
　　The children finished their buns and milk and then stood up, wondering where to begin their search.
　　They must look for a room or rooms facing east. That would be the first thing to do.
　　'Which side of the house faces east, Mrs. Sanders?' asked Julian. 'Do you know?'
　　'The kitchen faces due north,' said Mrs. Sanders. 'So east will be over there.' she pointed to the right.
　　'Thanks,' said Julian. 'Come on, everyone!' The three children went out of the kitchen, and turned tothe right. There were three rooms there - a kind of scullery, not much used now, a tiny room used as aden by old Mr. Sanders, and a room that had once been a drawing-room, but which was now cold andunused.
　　'They've all got stone floors,' said Julian.
　　'So we'll have to hunt through all of the three rooms,' said Anne.
　　'No, we won't,' said Julian. 'We shan't have to look in this scullery, for one thing!'
　　'Why not?' asked Anne.
　　46
　　'Because the walls are of stone, silly, and we want panelling,' said Julian. 'Use your brains, Anne!'
　　'Well, that's one room we needn't bother with, then,' said Dick. 'Look - both this little room and thedrawing-room have panelling, Julian. We must search in both.'
　　'There must be some reason for putting eight squares of panelling in the directions,' said Julian,looking at the roll of linen again. 'It would be a good idea to see whether there's a place with eightsquares only - you know, over a window, or something.'
　　It was tremendously exciting to look round the two rooms! The children began with the smallerroom. It was panelled all the way round in dark oak, but there was no place where only eight panelsshowed. So the children went into the next room.
　　The panelling there was different. It did not look so old, and was not so dark. The squares were rathera different size, too. The children tried each panel, tapping and pressing as they went, expecting atany moment to see one slide back as the one in the hall had done.
　　But they were disappointed. Nothing happened at all. They were still in the middle of trying whenthey heard footsteps in the hall, and voices. Somebody looked into the drawing-room. It was a man,thin and tall, wearing glasses on his long nose.
　　'Hallo!' he said. 'Mrs. Sanders told me you were treasure-hunting, or something. How are you gettingon?'
　　'Not very well,' said Julian, politely. He looked at the man, and saw behind him another one, younger,with rather screwed-up eyes and a big mouth. 'I suppose you are the two artists?' he asked.
　　'We are!' said the first man, coming into the room. 'Now, just exactly what are you looking for?'
　　Julian did not really want to tell him, but it was difficult not to. 'Well - we're just seeing if there's asliding panel here,' he said at last. 'There's one in the hall, you know. It's exciting to hunt round.'
　　'Shall we help?' said the first artist, coming into the room. 'What are your names? Mine's Thomas, andmy friend's name is Wilton.'
　　The children talked politely for a minute or two, not at all wanting the two men to help. If there wasanything to be found, they wanted to find it. It would spoil everything if grown-ups solved thepuzzle!
　　47
　　Soon everyone was tap-tap-tapping round the wooden panels. They were in the middle of this when avoice hailed them.
　　'Hallo! My word, we are all busy!'
　　The children turned, and saw their tutor standing in the doorway, smiling at them. The two artistslooked at him.
　　'Is this a friend of yours?' asked Mr. Thomas.
　　'Yes - he's our tutor, and he's very nice!' said Anne, running to Mr. Roland and putting her hand inhis.
　　'Perhaps you will introduce me, Anne,' said Mr. Roland, smiling at the little girl.
　　Anne knew how to introduce people. She had often seen her mother doing it. 'This is Mr.
　　Roland,' she said to the two artists. Then she turned to Mr. Roland. 'This is Mr. Thomas,' she said,waving her hand towards him, 'and the other one is Mr. Wilton.'
　　The men half-bowed to one another and nodded. 'Are you staying here?' asked Mr. Roland. 'A verynice old farm-house, isn't it?'
　　'It isn't time to go yet, is it?' asked Julian, hearing a clock strike.
　　'Yes, I'm afraid it is,' said Mr. Roland. I’m later meeting you than I expected. We must go in aboutfive minutes - no later. I'll just give you a hand in trying to find this mysterious secret way!'
　　But no matter how anyone of them pressed and tapped around the panels in either of the two rooms,they could not find anything exciting. It really was most disappointing.
　　'Well, we really must go now,' said Mr. Roland. 'Come and say good-bye to Mrs. Sanders.'
　　They all went into the warm kitchen, where Mrs. Sanders was cooking something that smelt mostdelicious.
　　'Something for our lunch, Mrs. Sanders?' said Mr. Wilton. 'My word, you really are a wonderfulcook!'
　　Mrs. Sanders smiled. She turned to the children. 'Well, dearies, did you find what you wanted?'
　　she asked.
　　'No,' said Mr. Roland, answering for them. 'We haven't been able to find the secret way, after all!'
　　'The secret way?' said Mrs. Sanders, in surprise. 'What do you know about that now? I thought it hadall been forgotten - in fact, I haven't believed in that secret way for many a year!'
　　'Oh, Mrs, Sanders - do you know about it?' cried Julian. 'Where is it?'
　　48
　　'I don't know, dear - the secret of it has been lost for many a day,' said the old lady. 'I remember myold grandmother telling me something about it when I was smaller than any of you. But I wasn'tinterested in things like that when I was little. I was all for cows and hens and sheep.'
　　'Oh, Mrs. Sanders - do, do try and remember something!' begged Dick. 'What was the secret way?'
　　'Well, it was supposed to be a hidden way from Kirrin Farmhouse to somewhere else,' said Mrs.
　　Sanders. 'I don't know where, I'm sure. It was used in the olden days when people wanted to hidefrom enemies.'
　　It was disappointing that Mrs. Sanders knew so little. The children said good-bye and went off withtheir tutor, feeling that their morning had been wasted.
　　George was indoors when they got to Kirrin Cottage. Her cheeks were not so pale, now, and shegreeted the children eagerly.
　　'Did you discover anything? Tell me all about it!' she said.
　　'There's nothing to tell,' said Dick, rather gloomily. 'We found three rooms facing east, with stonefloors, but only two of them had wooden panelling, so we hunted round those, tapping and punching -but there wasn't anything to be discovered at all.'
　　'We saw the two artists,' said Anne. 'One was tall and thin, and had a long nose with glasses on.
　　He was called Mr. Thomas. The other was younger, with little piggy eyes and an enormous mouth.'
　　'I met them out this morning,' said George. 'It must have been them. Mr. Roland was with them, andthey were all talking together. They didn't see me.'
　　'Oh, it couldn't have been the artists you saw,' said Anne, at once. 'Mr. Roland didn't know them.
　　I had to introduce them.'
　　'Well, I'm sure I heard Mr. Roland call one of them Wilton,' said George, puzzled. 'He must haveknown them.'
　　'It couldn't have been the artists,' said Anne, again. 'They really didn't know Mr. Roland. Mr.
　　Thomas asked if he was a friend of ours.'
　　'I'm sure I'm not mistaken,' said George, looking obstinate. 'If Mr. Roland said he didn't know the twoartists, he was telling lies.'
　　'Oh, you're always making out that he is doing something horrid!' cried Anne, indignantly. 'You justmake up things about him!'
　　49
　　'Sh!' said Julian. 'Here he is.'
　　The door opened and the tutor came in. 'Well,' he said, 'it was disappointing that we couldn't find thesecret way, wasn't it! Anyway, we were rather foolish to hunt about that drawing-room as we did -the panelling there wasn't really old - it must have been put in years after the other.'
　　'Oh - well, it's no good looking there again,' said Julian, disappointed. 'And I'm pretty sure there'snothing to be found in that other little room. We went all over it so thoroughly. Isn't it disappointing?'
　　'It is,' said Mr. Roland. 'Well, Julian, how did you like the two artists? I was pleased to meet them -they seemed nice fellows, and I shall like to know them.'
　　George looked at the tutor. Could he possibly be telling untruths in such a truthful voice? The littlegirl was very puzzled. She felt sure it was the artists she had seen him with. But why should hepretend he didn't know them? She must be mistaken. But all the same, she felt uncomfortable aboutit, and made up her mind to find out the truth, if she could.
9.探寻密道
　　探寻密道
　　第二天不上课，乔治脸色苍白，非常安静。蒂米已经被关进院子里的狗屋了，孩子们能听到它伤心的呜咽声，心里特别难过。
　　“哦，乔治，这一切我也很难受，”迪克说，“但是希望你对待这件事不要过激，因为这只会让你自己陷入困境，还有可怜的蒂米。”
　　乔治内心像打翻了五味瓶一样，她现在厌恶罗兰德先生已经到了无以复加的地步。可她却又不敢公然和他作对，因为罗兰德先生可能会在爸爸面前告状，这样她也许永远都见不到蒂米了。可要强迫自己扼杀天性，表现得十分顺从，简直难上加难。
　　罗兰德先生根本不关注她。其他孩子都试图让乔治参与到对话和计划中来，但她丝毫不感兴趣，保持沉默。
　　“乔治！我们今天要去科林农场，”迪克说，“一起来吧？我们去找密道的入口，入口一定在那里的某个地方。”
　　孩子们已经告诉乔治，罗兰德先生对亚麻布上的标记做了解释。虽然圣诞节的狂欢使他们暂时忘记了这一点，但现在仍然激动如初。
　　“当然，我当然去，”乔治看起来开朗了许多，“蒂米也一起，它该散步了。”但当小女孩发现罗兰德先生也要去的时候，她立刻改变了主意。她绝不和罗兰德先生一起去！绝不！她会单独和蒂米去散步。
　　“但是，乔治，想想我们会找到密道入口，那会多刺激啊。”朱利安抓住她的手臂说，但乔治把朱利安的手甩开了。
　　“如果罗兰德先生去，我就不去。”她依旧顽固。其他人心知肚明，乔治不会改变主意。
　　“我和蒂米单独去，”乔治说，“你们和亲爱的罗兰德先生一起去吧！”
　　说完她就和蒂米出发了，孤单的身影消失在花园小路的尽头。
　　其他三人望着她的背影——怎么办，乔治越来越被孤立了，他们该怎么做？
　　“孩子们，准备好了吗？”罗兰德先生问，“你们先走，好吗？我们稍后在农场汇合，我需要赶紧去山下的村子里买些东西。”于是三个孩子出发了，本来希望半路碰到乔治一起走，可他们却没见到她。
　　桑德斯夫妇看到这三个孩子来了很高兴，招呼他们到厨房里享用生姜面包和热牛奶。
　　“哈哈，你们几个是来发现更多秘密的吗？”桑德斯太太笑着问。
　　“我们可以再试试吗？”朱利安问，“我们想找一间朝东的房间，那里有石头地板和木板墙！”
　　“楼下的所有房间都铺有石头地板，”桑德斯太太说，“大家随心所欲地去找吧。我知道你们不会搞破坏的，但是楼上那个柜子后面有机关的房间不要去，还有隔壁的那间，那是两位画家的房间，好吗？”
　　“好吧，”朱利安对无法去摆弄那个神秘的柜子略感失望，“画家们已经来了吗，桑德斯太太？我想跟他们交流一下画画，我希望有一天我也能成为一名画家。”
　　“哦，是吗？亲爱的朱利安，”桑德斯太太说，“嗯，好吧。对我来说，我一直敬佩怎么还有人能画个画就可以赚钱。”
　　“艺术家不喜欢赚钱，他们是热爱画画。”朱利安故作深沉。这似乎让桑德斯太太更加困惑，她摇摇头笑了。
　　“他们古怪极了！”桑德斯太太说，“好了，你们去探秘吧，不过你今天不能和这两位画家交流了，朱利安大师。他们出门去了。”
　　孩子们享用完牛奶和面包，满足地起身，想知道从哪里开始比较好。不过在这之前，他们首先必须找到朝东的房间。
　　“这房子哪面朝东，桑德斯太太？”朱利安问。
　　“厨 房 朝 北，”桑 德 斯 太 太 思 忖 着，“那 么， 东 面 是 —— 那边！”她指向右边。
　　“谢谢您，”朱利安说着号召大家，“我们走吧！”
　　三个孩子出了厨房，向右转，那里有三间房：一间洗碗间，现在已经不怎么用了；一间桑德斯先生用作书房的小房间；还有一间曾经是客房，如今不用了，显得相当冷清。
　　“这些房间都有石头地板。”朱利安说。
　　“所以这三个房间里我们必须都搜一遍。”安妮说。
　　“不需要，这个洗碗间不需要！”朱利安说。
　　“为什么？”安妮问。
　　“因为它的墙壁是石头的，我们要找的是有石头地板而且同时具有木制墙板的房间，”朱利安很无奈，“动动脑子，安妮！”
　　“那么，我们可以排除一个房间，”迪克说，“看，这个小书房和客房都有木板墙，朱利安，这两个房间我们必须搜寻一下。”
　　“但是那八个方格按一定方向排列必然是有理由的，”朱利安再次拿出那卷亚麻布，“我们最好找找，有没有哪个地方是只有八个方格的——窗户上，或者其他什么地方？我觉得这个思路是对的。”
　　查找这两个房间真是令人兴奋！孩子们从小书房开始，小书房的墙板是深色橡树木板，但并没有八个方格。
　　于是孩子们又走进隔壁的客房，这间房里的墙板不一样，看起来没有那么旧，颜色也没有那么深，方格大小也不同。孩子们试着按压或者轻轻拍一拍每块墙板，每一处都不放过，期待着随时有一块能够滑开，就像大厅里的那块一样。但结果却令他们失望，什么都没发生。孩子们还在继续，这时他们听到大厅里传来脚步声和说话声，一个身材瘦高的男子向这间客房张望，长鼻子上架着一副眼镜。
　　“你们好！”男子开口，“桑德斯太太告诉我你们正在寻宝，或者寻找别的什么，有进展了吗？”
　　“没什么进展，”朱利安礼貌地回答，并打量着那个男子——他身后还有一个年轻人，眯缝眼、大嘴巴，“我想，你们就是那两位画家吧？”
　　“没错！”第一个高个儿男子走进房间，“你们现在在找什么？”
　　朱利安不想告诉他，又不好拒绝。“哦，我们只是看看这里有没有能滑动的墙板，”他最后说，“你们知道大厅里有一个，看着很神秘。”
　　“我们可以帮忙吗？”高个儿画家说，“你们叫什么名字？我叫托马斯，这位是我的朋友威尔顿。”
　　孩子们礼貌地和他们打了招呼，却不想让那两个人帮忙，他们自己完全能找到，如果有大人插手，反而会把一切搞砸！
　　很快，每个人都开始轻轻地敲墙板。这时一个熟悉的声音响起来：“嘿！你们好！我说，你们忙得不可开交啊！”孩子们转过身，看到罗兰德先生站在门口，微笑着看着他们，两位画家都在看他。
　　“这是你们的朋友吗？”托马斯先生问。
　　“是的，他是我们的家庭教师，人非常好！”安妮跑向罗兰德先生，拉着他的手。
　　“我想你来为我介绍一下吧，安妮。”罗兰德先生笑着对安妮说。
　　安妮知道如何介绍，她经常看到妈妈这样做。“这位是罗兰德先生。”她对两位画家说。然后，她转向罗兰德先生。“这位是托马斯先生，”她说着朝他挥手，“另一位是威尔顿先生。”
　　三位男士互相鞠躬，点头致意。“你们住在这儿吗？”罗兰德先生问，“这个古老的农场很漂亮。”
　　“现在还不到离开的时间吧？”朱利安问道，他听到了报时的钟声。
　　“我想到时间了，”罗兰德先生说，“因为跟你们会合的时间比我预计的晚了，所以为了回去不要太晚，我们得在大约五分钟后就回去。不过让我再帮你们试一下，看看能不能找到这个神秘的入口！”但无论他们怎么敲击和拍打这两个房间的墙板，都没有奇迹发生，这让几个孩子略显失望。
　　“好吧，我们现在必须走了，”罗兰德先生说，“快来和桑德斯太太说再见吧。”大家来到温暖的厨房，桑德斯太太正在烹饪美味佳肴。
　　“是给我们准备的午餐吗，桑德斯太太？”威尔顿先生说，“我说，您的厨艺太棒了！”
　　桑德斯太太笑着转向孩子们：“好吧，亲爱的小家伙们，找到你们想找的东西了吗？”
　　“没有，”罗兰德先生回答，“毕竟，我们还没找到密道。”
　　“密道？”桑德斯太太惊讶地说，“你怎会知道这个？我还以为这早已是尘封的往事了。事实上，多年来我都不相信有密道的存在！”
　　“哦，桑德斯太太，您知道密道吗？”朱利安喊道，“它在哪儿？”
　　“我不清楚，亲爱的朱利安，关于它的秘密已经失传很久了，”桑德斯太太说，“我记得我比你们年龄还小的时候，我的老祖母给我讲过一些，那时我还小，对这样的事情也不感兴趣，那时我心里都是奶牛、母鸡、绵羊，哈哈。”
　　“哦，桑德斯太太，能不能试着记起一些呢！”迪克恳求道，“什么是密道？”
　　“好吧，应该是从科林农场到其他地方的秘密通道，”桑德斯太太说，“那是古时候人们用来躲避敌人的一种方式，我确定我并不知道密道在哪里。”
　　令人失望的是桑德斯太太也知之甚少。孩子们和桑德斯太太道别，和罗兰德先生一起回家了，他们觉得这个早晨被浪费了。当他们回到科林庄园时，乔治已经回家了。她的脸颊看上去没有那么苍白了，还热情地跟大家打招呼：“你们有没有发现什么？快告诉我！”
　　“什么也没有，”迪克相当沮丧，“我们找了三个朝东的房间，有石头地板，但只有两个房间有木制墙板，所以我们就围着这些墙板敲击、拍打——但根本没有任何发现。”
　　“我们还见到那两位画家，”安妮说，“一个又高又瘦，长鼻子，戴眼镜，是托马斯先生；另一个年轻的，眯缝眼、大嘴巴。”
　　“我今天早上看到了他们，”乔治说，“一定是他们，罗兰德先生和他们在一起，他们在说话，没有看到我。”
　　“哦，那你看到的不可能是那两个画家，”安妮立刻说，“罗兰德先生不认识他们，我还为他们做了介绍。”
　　“好吧，我确定我听到罗兰德先生叫其中一个威尔顿，”乔治疑惑地说，“他在说谎！”
　　“不可能是画家，”安妮又说了一遍，“他们真的不认识罗兰德先生，托马斯先生问罗兰德先生是不是我们的朋友。”
　　“我确定我没弄错，”乔治继续坚持，“如果罗兰德先生说他不认识那两个画家，那他就是在说谎。”
　　“哦，你为什么总说他是个坏人！”安妮愤怒地喊，“这都是你编造的！”
　　“嘘！”朱利安说，“他来了。”
　　门开了，罗兰德先生走进来：“好吧，我们没找到密道，这让人失望，不是吗？不过不管怎么说，今天我们太傻了，因为那间客房的墙板并不是很陈旧，那它必然是这几年新换的。”
　　“哦，好吧，那就不需要再找那个房间了，”朱利安失望地说道，“而且我确定那间小书房里找不到任何东西，我们彻头彻尾地找了一遍，这不是很令人失望吗？”
　　“是的，”罗兰德先生说，“好吧，朱利安，你觉得那两个画家怎么样？我很高兴见到他们，他们看上去是不错的家伙，我很高兴认识他们。”
　　乔治盯着罗兰德先生，他的声音这么真挚，说的是谎话吗？乔治自己也非常困惑。她确信她见到罗兰德先生和那两个画家在一起，但他为什么要假装不认识他们呢？一定是自己弄错了。但她仍然觉得内心不安，暗下决心一定要找出真相。
Chapter Ten A SHOCK FOR GEORGE AND TIM
Chapter Ten A SHOCK FOR GEORGE AND TIM
　　NEXT morning there were lessons again - and no Timothy, under the table! George felt very muchinclined to refuse to work, but what would be the good of that? Grown-ups were so powerful, andcould dole out all kinds of punishments. She didn't care how much she was punished herself but shecouldn't bear to think that Timothy might have to share in the punishments too.
　　So, pale and sullen, the little girl sat down at the table with the others. Anne was eager to join in thelessons - in fact she was eager to do anything to please Mr. Roland, because he had given her thefairy doll from the top of the Christmas tree! Anne thought she was the prettiest doll she had everseen.
　　George had scowled at the doll when Anne showed it to her. She didn't like dolls, and she certainlywasn't going to like one that Mr. Roland had chosen, and given to Anne! But Anne loved it, and hadmade up her mind to do lessons with the others, and work as well as she could.
　　50
　　George did as little as she could without getting into trouble. Mr. Roland took no interest in her or inher work. He praised the others, and took a lot of trouble to show Julian something he found difficult.
　　The children heard Tim whining outside as they worked. This troubled them very much, for Timothywas such a companion, and so dear to them all. They could not bear to think of him left out ofeverything, cold and miserable in the yard-kennel. When the ten minutes' break came, and Mr.
　　Roland went out of the room for a few minutes, Julian spoke to George.
　　'George! It's awful for us to hear poor old Tim whining out there in the cold. And I'm sure I heardhim cough. Let me speak to Mr. Roland about him. You must feel simply dreadful knowing that Timis out there.'
　　'I thought I heard him cough, too,' said George, looking worried. 'I hope he won't get a cold. Hesimply doesn't understand why I have to put him there. He thinks I'm terribly unkind.'
　　The little girl turned her head away, afraid that tears might come into her eyes. She always boastedthat she never cried - but it was very difficult to keep the tears away when she thought of Timothy outthere in the cold.
　　Dick took her arm. 'Listen, George - you just hate Mr. Roland, and I suppose you can't help it.
　　But we can none of us bear Timothy being out there all alone - and it looks like snow today, whichwould be awful for him. Could you be awfully, awfully good today, and forget your dislike, so thatwhen your father asks Mr. Roland for your report, he can say you were very good- and then we'll all ask Mr. Roland if he wouldn't let Timmy come back into the house.'
　　'See?'
　　Timothy coughed again, out in the yard, and George's heart went cold. Suppose he got that awfulillness called pneumonia - and she couldn't nurse him because he had to live in the kennel ? Shewould die of unhappiness! She turned to Julian and Dick.
　　'All right,' she said. 'I do hate Mr. Roland - but I love Timothy more than I hate the tutor - so forTim's sake I'll pretend to be good and sweet and hard-working. And then you can beg him to letTimothy come back.'
　　'Good girl!' said Julian. 'Now here he comes - so do your best.'
　　To the tutor's enormous surprise, George gave him a smile when he came into the room. This was sounexpected that it puzzled him. He was even more puzzled to find that George worked 51harder than anyone for the rest of the morning, and she answered politely and cheerfully when hespoke to her. He gave her a word of praise.
　　'Well done, Georgina! I can see you've got brains.'
　　'Thank you," said George, and gave him another smile - a very watery, poor affair, compared with thehappy smiles the others had been used to - but still, it was a smile!
　　At dinner-time George looked after Mr. Roland most politely - passed him the salt, offered him morebread, got up to fill his glass when it was empty! The others looked at her in admiration.
　　George had plenty of pluck. She must be finding it very difficult to behave as if Mr. Roland was agreat friend, when she really disliked him so much!
　　Mr. Roland seemed very pleased, and appeared to be quite willing to respond to George'sfriendliness. He made a little joke with her, and offered to lend her a book he had about a dog.
　　George's mother was delighted to find that her difficult daughter seemed to be turning over a newleaf. Altogether things were very much happier that day.
　　'George, you go out of the room before your father comes in to ask Mr. Roland about your behaviourtonight,' said Julian. 'Then, when the tutor gives you a splendid report, we will all ask if Timothy cancome back. It will be easier if you are not there.'
　　'All right,' said George. She was longing for this difficult day to be over. It was very hard for her topretend to be friendly, when she was not. She could never never do it, if it wasn't for Timothy's sake!
　　George disappeared out of the room just before six o'clock, when she heard her father coming.
　　He walked into the room and nodded to Mr. Roland.
　　'Well? Have your pupils worked well today?' he asked.
　　'Very well indeed,' said Mr. Roland. 'Julian has really mastered something he didn't understand today.
　　Dick has done well in Latin. Anne has written out a French exercise without a single mistake!'
　　'And what about George?' asked Uncle Quentin.
　　'I was coming to Georgina,' said Mr. Roland, looking round and seeing that she was gone. 'She hasworked better than anyone else today! I am really pleased with her. She has tried hard - and she hasreally been polite and friendly. I feel she is trying to turn over a new leaf.'
　　'She's been a brick today,' said Julian, warmly. 'Uncle Quentin, she has tried awfully hard, she reallyhas. And, you know, she's terribly unhappy.'
　　52
　　'Why?' asked Uncle Quentin in surprise.
　　'Because of Timothy,' said Julian. 'He's out in the cold, you see. And he's got a dreadful cough.'
　　'Oh, Uncle Quentin, please do let poor Timmy come indoors,' begged Anne.
　　'Yes, please do,' said Dick. 'Not only for George's sake, because she loves him so, but for us too.
　　We hate to hear him whining outside. And George does deserve a reward, Uncle - she's beenmarvellous today.'
　　'Well,' said Uncle Quentin, looking doubtfully at the three eager faces before him, 'well - I hardlyknow what to say. If George is going to be sensible - and the weather gets colder - well...'
　　He looked at Mr. Roland, expecting to hear him say something in favour of Timothy. But the tutorsaid nothing. He looked annoyed.
　　'What do you think, Mr Roland?' asked Uncle Quentin.
　　'I think you should keep to what you said and let the dog stay outside,' said the tutor. 'George isspoilt, and needs firm handling. You should really keep to your decision about the dog. There is noreason to give way about it just because she has tried to be good for once!'
　　The three children stared at Mr. Roland in surprise and dismay. It had never entered their heads thathe would not back them up!
　　'Oh, Mr. Roland, you are horrid!' cried Anne. 'Oh, do, do say you'll have Timothy back.'
　　The tutor did not look at Anne. He pursed up his mouth beneath its thick moustache and lookedstraight at Uncle Quentin.
　　'Well,' said Uncle Quentin, 'perhaps we had better see how George behaves for a whole week.
　　After all - just one day isn't much.'
　　The children stared at him in disgust. They thought he was weak and unkind. Mr. Roland nodded hishead.
　　'Yes,' he said, 'a week will be a better test. If Georgina behaves well for a whole week, we'll haveanother word about the dog, sir. But at present I feel it would be better to keep him outside.'
　　'Very well,' said Uncle Quentin, and went out of the room. He paused to look back. 'Come along intomy study sometime,' he said. 'I've got a bit further with my formula. It's at a very interesting stage.'
　　The three children looked at one another but said nothing. How mean of the tutor to stop UncleQuentin from having Timothy indoors again! They all felt disappointed in him. The tutor saw theirfaces.
　　53
　　'I'm sorry to disappoint you,' he said. 'But I think if you'd been bitten by Timothy once and snapped atall over when he got you on the floor, you would not be very keen on having him in either!'
　　He went out of the room. The children wondered what to say to George. She came in a moment later,her face eager. But when she saw the gloomy looks of the other three, she stopped short.
　　'Isn't Tim to come in?' she asked, quickly. 'What's happened? Tell me!'
　　They told her. The little girl's face grew dark and angry when she heard how the tutor had put his footdown about Timothy, even when her father had himself suggested that the dog might come indoors.
　　'Oh, what a beast he is!' she cried. 'How I do hate him! I'll pay him out for this. I will, I will!'
　　She rushed out of the room. They heard her fumbling in the hall, and then the front door banged.
　　'She's gone out into the dark,' said Julian. ‘I bet she's gone to Timmy. Poor old George. Now she'll beworse than ever!'
　　That night George could not sleep. She lay and tossed in her bed, listening for Timothy. She heardhim cough. She heard him whine. He was cold, she knew he was. She had put plenty of fresh strawinto his kennel and had turned it away from the cold north wind - but he must feel the bitter nightterribly, after sleeping for so long on her bed!
　　Timothy gave such a hollow cough that George could bear it no longer. She must, she simply must,get up and go down to him. 'I shall bring him into the house for a little while and rub his chest withsome of that stuff Mother uses for herself when she's got a cold on her chest,' thought the girl.
　　'Perhaps that will do him good.'
　　She quickly put a few clothes on and crept downstairs. The whole house was quiet. She slipped outinto the yard and undid Tim's chain. He was delighted to see her and licked her hands and facelovingly.
　　'Come along into the warm for a little while,' whispered the little girl. I’ll rub your poor chest withsome oil I've got.'
　　Timmy pattered behind her into the house. She took him to the kitchen - but the fire was out and theroom was cold. George went to look at the other rooms.
　　There was quite a nice fire still in her father's study. She and Tim went in there. She did not put onthe light, because the firelight was fairly bright. She had with her the little bottle of oil from thebathroom cupboard. She put it down by the fire to warm.
　　54
　　Then she rubbed the dog's hairy chest with the oil, hoping it would do him good. 'Don't cough now ifyou can help it, Tim,' she whispered. 'If you do, someone may hear you. Lie down here by the fire,darling, and get nice and warm. Your cold will soon be better.'
　　Timothy lay down on the rug. He was glad to be out of his kennel and with his beloved mistress.
　　He put his head on her knee. She stroked him and whispered to him.
　　The firelight glinted on the curious instruments and glass tubes that stood around on shelves in herfather's study. A log shifted a little in the fire and settled lower, sending up a cloud of sparks.
　　It was warm and peaceful there.
　　The little girl almost fell asleep. The big dog closed his eyes too, and rested peacefully, happy andwarm. George settled down with her head on his neck.
　　She awoke to hear the study clock striking six! The room was cold now, and she shivered.
　　Goodness! Six o'clock! Joanna the cook would soon be awake. She must not find Timmy and Georgein the study!
　　'Tim darling! Wake up! We must put you back into your kennel,' whispered George. 'I’m sure yourcold is better, because you haven't coughed once since you've been indoors. Get up - and don't makea noise. Sh!'
　　Tim stood up and shook himself. He licked George's hand. He understood perfectly that he must bequite quiet. The two of them slipped out of the study, went into the hall and out of the front door.
　　In a minute or two Timothy was on the chain, and in his kennel, cuddled down among the straw.
　　George wished she could cuddle there with him. She gave him a pat and slipped back indoors again.
　　She went up to bed, sleepy and cold. She forgot that she was partly dressed and got into bed just asshe was. She was asleep in a moment!
　　In the morning Anne was most amazed to find that George had on vest, knickers, skirt and jersey,when she got out of bed to dress.
　　'Look!' she said. 'You're half-dressed! But I saw you undressing last night.'
　　'Be quiet,' said George. 'I went down and let Tim in last night. We sat in front of the study fire and Irubbed him with oil. Now don't you dare to say a word to anyone! Promise!'
　　Anne promised - and she faithfully kept her word. Well, well - to think that George dared to roamabout like that all night - what an extraordinary girl she was!
10.大失所望
　　大失所望
　　第二天早上开始上课了，桌子底下没有蒂米！乔治内心对上课是抗拒的，但那又有什么用呢？大人们都不好对付，他们还能轻易惩罚自己。乔治根本不在乎他们对自己的惩罚，但她不忍心让蒂米也受到惩罚。
　　所以，脸色苍白阴郁的乔治还是和其他人一起坐在桌边。安妮也很想学这些课程，事实上，她急于做任何事情来讨好罗兰德先生，因为罗兰德先生把圣诞树顶端的仙女娃娃送给了她！安妮认为那是她见过的最漂亮的娃娃。
　　当安妮向乔治展示时，乔治对这个娃娃皱皱眉。她不喜欢娃娃，当然更不会喜欢罗兰德先生送的这个，而且是送给安妮的！但安妮喜欢，而且她还决定与其他人一起上课，尽力好好表现。
　　而乔治只是尽可能地少参与，只要不让自己陷入麻烦就可以了。罗兰德先生根本不关注乔治，也不关注她的学业。但他不断赞扬其他人，还大费周章地给朱利安演示怎么解决晦涩难懂的问题。
　　孩子们上课的时候能听到蒂米在院子里的呜咽声，这让他们非常困扰，因为蒂米是他们的好伙伴，大家都喜欢亲近蒂米。他们无法忍受蒂米被单独抛弃在院子里，外面那么冷。
　　当十分钟的课间休息时间到来时，罗兰德先生离开了房间。朱利安对乔治说：“乔治，听着！我们都听到可怜的蒂米在寒冷中呜咽着，太糟糕了。我都听到它咳嗽了。我会和罗兰德先生谈谈蒂米的事。它在外面，你一定觉得天都塌下来了。”
　　“我也听到了它的咳嗽声，”乔治很担心，“希望它不会感冒才好。它根本不明白我为什么要把它放在那里，它一定认为我对它不好。”
　　小女孩转过头，害怕泪水会流下来，她总是吹嘘自己从来不哭。但是当她想起蒂米在寒冷中煎熬，就禁不住哭了。
　　迪克抓住她的胳膊：“听着，乔治，你只是讨厌罗兰德先生，我知道你克制不了。但是我们没有人能忍受让蒂米独自留在外面，今天看起来要下雪，那就太糟糕了。你今天一定要表现得非常好，忘记你对罗兰德先生的厌恶吧。那么，当昆廷叔叔向罗兰德先生询问你今天的表现时，他就可以说你很好。然后我们都会问罗兰德先生是否愿意让蒂米回到屋里，明白吗？”
　　蒂米再次咳嗽了一声，乔治的心彻底凉了。假如它得了可怕的肺炎，而且又必须住在狗窝里，自己无法照顾它该怎么办？那自己一定伤心死了！
　　于是乔治转向朱利安和迪克说道：“好吧，我讨厌罗兰德先生。
　　但我更爱蒂米，比讨厌他还更爱蒂米。所以为了蒂米，我会假装表现得勤快、乖巧，然后你们可以求他让蒂米回来。”
　　“好孩子！”朱利安说，“好了，他要回来了，所以你要尽力表现。”
　　罗兰德先生回来后异常惊喜，因为乔治在他进入房间时对他笑了。这太令人意外了，也让他感到困惑。更让他感到困惑的是，乔治在余下的时间里比任何人都努力，罗兰德先生和她说话时，她也礼貌而愉快地回答，于是罗兰德先生表扬了她。
　　“干得好，乔治娜！我能看到你的进步。”
　　“谢谢。”乔治说，然后又对他微笑了。与其他人发自内心的微笑相比，非常牵强可怜的笑，但仍然是微笑！
　　晚餐时间，乔治还礼貌地照顾罗兰德先生。她给他递盐，给他添面包，杯子空了的时候起身给他倒满！其他人欣慰地看着她。乔治内心很挣扎，她要表现得像对待好朋友一样对待罗兰德先生——这很难，特别是她真的非常讨厌他！
　　罗兰德先生似乎也很高兴，非常愿意回应乔治的友善。他还和乔治开了一个小玩笑，并提出愿意借给她一本关于狗的书。乔治的妈妈很高兴发现女儿似乎正在改变。这一天大家心情都不错。
　　朱利安说：“乔治，昆廷叔叔进来问罗兰德先生你今天的表现之前，你先出去。然后，当罗兰德先生说你今天表现得很好时，我们都会请求让蒂米进来。如果你不在场，这件事情办起来会更容易。”
　　“好。”乔治说。她渴望这艰难的一天赶紧过去，让她假装友好太难了。如果不是因为蒂米，她永远不会这样做！
　　快到傍晚六点，听到爸爸的脚步声，乔治就走开了。昆廷叔叔走进房间，向罗兰德先生点点头：“你的学生今天表现得好吗？”
　　“事实上非常好，”罗兰德先生说，“朱利安掌握了他今天不懂的问题，迪克在拉丁语课上又进步了，安妮用法语写下了一小段文章，没有一个错误！”
　　“乔治怎么样？”昆廷叔叔问。
　　“我正要表扬乔治娜，”罗兰德先生环顾四周，却发现她不在，“她今天的表现比其他人都好！我很高兴，她很努力，也很有礼貌、很友好。我觉得她正在做全新的自己。”
　　“今天她真的很棒，”朱利安热情地说，“昆廷叔叔，她非常努力，也确实有很大进步。而且，你知道吗？她非常不开心。”
　　“为什么？”昆廷叔叔惊讶地问。
　　“因为蒂米，”朱利安说，“你知道的，它被关在门外，外面那么寒冷，而且它的咳嗽很严重。”
　　“哦，昆廷叔叔，请让可怜的蒂米进屋吧。”安妮恳求道。
　　“是啊，求你了，”迪克说，“不仅仅是为了乔治，她爱蒂米，我们也是，我们不想听到它在外面呜咽，而且今天乔治确实值得奖励，叔叔，今天她一直都很棒。”
　　“好吧，”昆廷叔叔有些怀疑地看着他面前三张热切的脸说，“好吧，我几乎不知道该说什么，如果乔治学聪明了，天气又更冷了，那么……”
　　昆廷叔叔看着罗兰德先生，期待听到他说一些赞成让蒂米进屋的话，可是罗兰德先生什么也没说，他看起来很生气。
　　“你觉得怎么样，罗兰德？”昆廷叔叔问。
　　“我认为你应该坚持你说的话，让狗留在院子里，”罗兰德先生说，“乔治是被宠坏了，需要严肃的处理。而你应该坚持对狗留在院子里的决定，没有理由仅仅因为她今天试图好好表现就让步！”
　　三个孩子目瞪口呆，沮丧地盯着罗兰德先生。他们从没想过罗兰德先生竟然不答应！
　　“罗兰德先生，您太可怕了！”安妮喊道，“快说您同意让蒂米进来。”罗兰德先生并没有看安妮，他浓密的小胡子下噘起了嘴，直视着昆廷叔叔。
　　“好吧，”昆廷叔叔说，“也许我们最好看看乔治一整周的行为。
　　毕竟，只有一天确实不够。”孩子们生气地盯着昆廷叔叔，认为他软弱。
　　罗兰德先生点了点头。“是的，一周将是一个比较好的考验。如果乔治娜一周都能好好表现，我们才会让蒂米进来，先生。但是目前我觉得把它留在外面会更好。”
　　“没错，”昆廷叔叔说着走出了房间，中途停下来回头说，“有时间来我的书房，我的配方有进展了，现在是一个非常有趣的阶段。”
　　三个孩子互相对视，没有说什么。罗兰德先生竟然劝昆廷叔叔拒绝让蒂米进屋！他们都对罗兰德先生感到失望。
　　罗兰德先生看到了他们的表情：“我很抱歉让你们失望，但是我想如果你们曾经被蒂米咬过，它还把你们扑倒在地试图撕咬，你们也不会想让它进来！”罗兰德先生走出了房间。
　　孩子们不知道该怎么对乔治解释。过了一会儿，乔治一脸迫切地进来，但是当她看到其他三个人郁闷的表情时，就愣住了。“蒂米不能进来吗？”她迅速问，“发生了什么？快告诉我！”
　　孩子们一五一十地告诉乔治。当她听到罗兰德先生是如何贬低蒂米时，她的脸色更黑、更生气了，就连爸爸都暗示蒂米可以进屋，而罗兰德先生竟然拒绝了。
　　“哦，他真是个坏蛋！”乔治叫道，“我恨死他了！我会让他付出代价！一定！”她冲出了房间。孩子们听到乔治摸索着穿过漆黑的大厅，然后前门“砰”的一声关上了。
　　“她又回去了，”朱利安说，“我打赌她去找蒂米了，可怜的乔治，她现在只会比以前更糟糕！”
　　那天晚上，乔治辗转反侧。她躺在床上，听着蒂米的声音——它在咳嗽，它在呜咽。蒂米很冷，乔治知道。虽然她在狗窝里放了大量新鲜的稻草，希望能帮它抵御寒冷的北风。但是蒂米已经在自己的床上睡了这么长时间，这样寒冷的夜晚它一定受不了！蒂米又可怜地咳嗽了一声，乔治再也忍不了，她必须去找它：“我可以把它带进屋子里待一会儿，感冒时妈妈都会用药油帮自己揉前胸，也许这对蒂米有好处。”
　　乔治赶紧穿上几件衣服，悄悄下楼。整个房子都很安静。她溜进院子，解开了蒂米的狗链。见到小主人，蒂米高兴地舔着她的双手和脸颊。“到暖和的地方来，”乔治低声说，“我用药油帮你擦擦胸口。”
　　蒂米跟在她身后轻轻抖了抖身子，乔治带蒂米去了厨房——但是火已经灭了，房间很冷。乔治又去看了其他房间。书房中的火还烧得很旺，于是她和蒂米去了书房。乔治没有开灯，因为火光相当明亮。她带着从浴室柜里找到的一小瓶药油，把它放在火边温暖一下，然后用药油揉着蒂米毛茸茸的前胸，希望能让蒂米好受些。
　　“如果你听话的话，现在就不要咳嗽，蒂米，”乔治低声说，“如果你咳嗽，有人可能会听到你的声音。来，这里烧着火，躺在这里，暖和起来，你的感冒很快就会好。”
　　蒂米躺在地毯上，它很高兴能脱离那个狗窝，和它心爱的小主人在一起。它把头放在乔治的膝盖上，乔治抚摸着它，低声对它说话。在昆廷叔叔的书房里，火光照射在稀奇古怪的仪器和玻璃导管上，一根木头在火堆中掉了下来，崩出一团火花，房间里真温暖、真舒服。
　　乔治几乎睡着了，蒂米也闭上了眼睛，安静地休息，无比快乐温暖。乔治把头靠在蒂米的脖子上。
　　书房的钟表响了六次，乔治醒了，现在房间很冷，她微微颤抖着。天哪！六点了！厨师乔安娜很快就会起床，一定不能让她在书房中看到自己和蒂米！
　　“蒂米，蒂米！快醒醒！我必须把你带回狗窝，”乔治低声说，“我想你的感冒好了，因为你后来没有再咳嗽过，快起床吧！不要发出任何声音，嘘……”
　　蒂米站了起来，摇了摇头，它舔了乔治的手，好像完全理解一样，它一直很安静。乔治和蒂米溜出书房，穿过大厅，从前门出去。
　　不一会儿，蒂米就戴上狗链，回到狗窝，趴在稻草中。乔治希望自己可以和它一起待在这里，但她知道这不可能。于是她轻拍了蒂米一下，又回到房间里去了。她回到床上睡觉，又困又冷，忘记了身上还穿着衣服，不一会儿就睡着了！
　　早上，乔治起床准备穿衣服时，安妮惊讶地发现乔治穿着背心、短裤、裙子和运动衫。“乔治！你怎么穿着衣服！但是昨晚我看到你换了睡衣的。”
　　“别吵。”乔治说，“昨晚我下楼让蒂米进屋，我们在书房火炉前取暖，我用药油给它擦身体。你绝对不能说漏嘴！发誓！”安妮答应一定忠实地遵守承诺。其实她内心暗暗地称赞，乔治敢大半夜地这样做，真是一个了不起的女孩！
Chapter Eleven STOLEN PAPERS
Chapter Eleven STOLEN PAPERS
　　'GEORGE, don't behave fiercely today, will you?' said Julian, after breakfast. 'It won't do you orTimothy any good at all.'
　　'Do you suppose I'm going to behave well when I know perfectly well that Mr. Roland will never letme have Tim indoors all these holidays?' said George.
　　'Well - they said a week,' said Dick. 'Can't you try for a week?'
　　'No. At the end of a week Mr. Roland will say I must try for another week,' said George. 'He's got areal dislike for poor Tim. And for me too. I'm not surprised at that, because I know that when I try tobe horrid, I really am horrid. But he shouldn't hate poor Timmy.'
　　'Oh George - you'll spoil the whole holls if you are silly, and keep getting into trouble,' said Anne.
　　'Well, I'll spoil them then,' said George, the sulky look coming back on her face.
　　'I don't see why you have to spoil them for us, as well as for yourself,' said Julian.
　　'They don't need to be spoilt for you,' said George. 'You can have all the fun you want - go for walkswith your dear Mr. Roland, play games with him in the evening, and laugh and talk as much as youlike. You don't need to take any notice of me.'
　　'You are a funny girl, George,' said Julian, with a sigh. 'We like you, and we hate you to be unhappy -so how can we have fun if we know you are miserable - and Timmy too?'
　　'Don't worry about me' said George, in rather a choky voice. I’m going out to Tim. I'm not coming into lessons today.'
　　'George! But you must!' said Dick and Julian together.
　　'There's no "must" about it,' said George. I’m just not coming. I won't work with Mr. Roland till hesays I can have Timothy indoors again.'
　　'But you know you can't do things like that - you'll be spanked or something,' said Dick.
　　'I shall run away if things get too bad,' said George, in a shaky voice. 'I shall run away with Tim.'
　　She went out of the room and shut the door with a bang. The others stared after her. What could youdo with a person like George? Anyone could rule her with kindness and understanding - but as soonas she came up against anyone who disliked her, or whom she disliked, she shied away like afrightened horse - and kicked like a frightened horse, too!
　　56
　　Mr. Roland came into the sitting-room, his books in his hand. He smiled at the three children.
　　'Well? All ready for me, I see. Where's George?'
　　Nobody answered. Nobody was going to give George away!
　　'Don't you know where she is?' asked Mr. Roland in surprise. He looked at Julian.
　　'No, sir,' said Julian, truthfully. 'I've no idea where she is.'
　　'Well - perhaps she will come along in a few minutes,' said Mr. Roland. 'Gone to feed that dog ofhers, I suppose.'
　　They all settled down to work. The time went on and George did not come in. Mr. Roland glanced atthe clock and made an impatient clicking noise with his tongue.
　　'Really, it's too bad of George to be so late! Anne, go and see if you can find her.'
　　Anne went. She looked in the bedroom. There was no George there. She looked in the kitchen.
　　Joanna was there, making cakes. She gave the little girl a hot piece to eat. She had no idea whereGeorge was.
　　Anne couldn't find her anywhere. She went back and told Mr. Roland. He looked angry.
　　'I shall have to report this to her father,' he said. 'I have never had to deal with such a rebellious childbefore. She seems to do everything she possibly can to get herself into trouble.'
　　Lessons went on. Break came, and still George did not appear. Julian slipped out and saw that theyard-kennel was empty. So George had gone out with Timmy! What a row she would get into whenshe got back!
　　No sooner had the children settled down after Break to do the rest of the morning's lessons, than a bigdisturbance came.
　　Uncle Quentin burst into the room, looking upset and worried.
　　'Have any of you children been into my study?' he asked.
　　'No, Uncle Quentin,' they all answered.
　　'You said we weren't to,' said Julian.
　　'Why, sir? Has something been broken?' asked Mr. Roland.
　　'Yes - the test-tubes I set yesterday for an experiment have been broken - and what is worse, threemost important pages of my book have gone,' said Uncle Quentin. 'I can write them out again, butonly after a great deal of work. I can't understand it. Are you sure, children, that none of you has beenmeddling with things in my study?'
　　57
　　'Quite sure,' they answered. Anne went very red - she suddenly remembered what George had toldher. George said she had taken Timmy into Uncle Quentin's study last night, and rubbed his chestwith oil! But George couldn't possibly have broken the test-tubes, and taken pages from her father'sbook!
　　Mr. Roland noticed that Anne had gone red.
　　'Do you know anything about this, Anne?' he asked.
　　'No, Mr. Roland,' said Anne, blushing even redder, and looking very uncomfortable indeed.
　　'Where's George?' suddenly said Uncle Quentin.
　　The children said nothing, and it was Mr. Roland who answered:
　　'We don't know. She didn't come to lessons this morning.'
　　'Didn't come to lessons! Why not?' demanded Uncle Quentin, beginning to frown.
　　'She didn't say,' said Mr. Roland dryly. 'I imagine she was upset because we were firm about Timothylast night, sir - and this is her way of being defiant.'
　　'The naughty girl!' said George's father, angrily. 'I don't know what's come over her lately.
　　Fanny! Come here! Did you know that George hasn't been in to her lessons today?'
　　Aunt Fanny came into the room. She looked very worried. She held a little bottle in her hand.
　　The children wondered what it was.
　　'Didn't come in to lessons!' repeated Aunt Fanny. 'How extraordinary! Then where is she?'
　　'I don't think you need to worry about her,' said Mr. Roland, smoothly. 'She's probably gone off withTimothy in a fit of temper. What is very much more important, sir, is the fact that your work appearsto have been spoilt by someone. I only hope it is not George, who has been spiteful enough to payyou out for not allowing her to have her dog in the house.'
　　'Of course it wasn't George!' cried Dick, angry that anyone should even think such a thing of hiscousin.
　　'George would never, never do a thing like that,' said Julian.
　　'No, she never would,' said Anne, sticking up valiantly for her cousin, although a horrid doubt was inher mind. After all - George had been in the study last night!
　　'Quentin, I am sure George would not even think of such a thing,' said Aunt Fanny. 'You will findthose pages somewhere - and as for the test-tubes that were broken, well, perhaps the wind blew thecurtain against them, or something! When did you last see those pages?'
　　58
　　'Last night,' said Uncle Quentin. 'I read them over again, and checked my figures to make sure theywere right. These pages contain the very heart of my formula! If they got into anyone else's hands,they could use my secret. This is a terrible thing for me! I must know what has happened to them.'
　　'I found this in your study, Quentin,' said Aunt Fanny, and she held up the little bottle she carried.
　　'Did you put it there? It was in the fender.'
　　Uncle Quentin took the bottle and stared at it. 'Camphorated oil!' he said. 'Of course I didn't take itthere. Why should I?'
　　'Well - who took it there, then?' asked Aunt Fanny, puzzled. 'None of the children has a cold -and anyway, they wouldn't think of the camphorated oil, and take it into the study to use! It's mostextraordinary!'
　　Everyone was astonished. Why should a bottle of camphorated oil appear in the study fender?
　　Only one person could think why. It suddenly came into Anne's mind in a flash. George had said shehad taken Timmy into the study, and rubbed him with oil! He had had a cough, that was why.
　　And she had left the oil in the study. Oh dear, oh dear - now what would happen? What a pity Georgehad forgotten the oil!
　　Anne went very red again as she looked at the oil. Mr. Roland, whose eyes seemed very sharp thismorning, looked hard at the little girl.
　　'Anne! You know something about that oil!' he said suddenly. 'What do you know? Did you put itthere?'
　　'No,' said Anne. 'I haven't been into the study. I said I hadn't.'
　　'Do you know anything about the oil?' said Mr. Roland, again. 'You do know something.'
　　Everyone stared at Anne. She stared back. This was simply dreadful. She could not give Georgeaway. She could not. George was in quite enough trouble as it was, without getting into any more.
　　She pursed up her little mouth and did not answer.
　　'Anne!' said Mr. Roland, sternly. 'Answer when you are spoken to.'
　　Anne said nothing. The two boys stared at her, guessing that it was something to do with George.
　　They did not know that George had brought Timothy in the night before.
　　'Anne, dear,' said her aunt, gently. 'Tell us if you know something. It might help us to find out whathas happened to Uncle Quentin's papers. It is very, very, important.'
　　Still Anne said nothing. Her eyes filled with tears. Julian squeezed her arm.
　　59
　　'Don't bother Anne,' he said to the grown-ups. 'If she thinks she can't tell you, she's got some verygood reason.'
　　'I think she's shielding George,' said Mr. Roland. 'Is that it, Anne?'
　　Anne burst into tears. Julian put his arms round his little sister, and spoke again to the three grown-ups.
　　'Don't bother Anne! Can't you see she's upset?'
　　'We'll let George speak for herself, when she thinks she will come in,' said Mr. Roland. 'I'm sure sheknows how that bottle got there - and if she put it there herself must have been into the study- and she's the only person that has been there.'
　　The boys could not think for one moment that George would do such a thing as spoil her father'swork. Anne feared it, and it upset her. She sobbed in Julian's arms.
　　'When George comes in, send her to me in my study,' said Uncle Quentin, irritably. 'How can a manwork when these upsets go on? I was always against having children in the house.'
　　He stamped out, tall, cross and frowning. The children were glad to see him go. Mr. Roland shut thebooks on the table with a snap.
　　'We can't do any more lessons this morning,' he said. Put on your things and go out for a walk tilldinner-time.'
　　'Yes, do,' said Aunt Fanny, looking white and worried. 'That's a good idea.'
　　Mr. Roland and their aunt went out of the room. 'I don't know if Mr. Roland thinks he's coming outwith us,' said Julian, in a low voice, 'but we've got to get out first and give him the slip.
　　We've got to find George and warn her what's up.'
　　'Right!' said Dick. 'Dry your eyes, Anne darling. Hurry and get your things. We'll slip out of thegarden door before Mr. Roland comes down. I bet George has gone for her favourite walk over thecliffs. We'll meet her!' The three children threw on their outdoor things and crept out of the gardendoor quietly. They raced down the garden path, and out of the gate before Mr. Roland even knewthey were gone! They made their way to the cliffs, and looked to see if George was coming.
　　'There she is - and Timothy, too!' cried Julian, pointing. 'George! George! Quick, we've gotsomething to tell you!'
11.书稿失窃
　　书稿失窃
　　“乔治，今天不要表现得太过分，好吗？”朱利安早餐后对乔治说，“因为这样对你和蒂米都没有任何好处。”
　　“我明知道罗兰德先生在假期里永远不会让蒂米进屋，那么你认为我还会表现得很好吗？”乔治反问。
　　“可是，他们说了一个星期，”迪克说，“你就不能在这一星期里试一下？”
　　“不可能，这一周结束时，罗兰德先生一定会说我还得再表现一周才行，”乔治说，“他就是不喜欢可怜的蒂米，对我来说也是一样。我对此并不感到惊讶，因为我知道当我试图变得可怕时，我就会真的很可怕。但他不应该讨厌可怜的蒂米。”
　　“哦，乔治，如果你继续这么傻，你就会毁了整个假期，不断陷入困境。”安妮说。
　　“那我就把假期彻底搞糟。”乔治脸上露出阴沉的样子。
　　“我不明白为什么你要毁了我们的假期，还有你自己的。”朱利安说。
　　“你们的假期不会被毁，”乔治说，“你们完全可以享受想要的快乐假期——和你们亲爱的罗兰德先生一起散步，晚上和他一起玩游戏，尽情地说笑，不需要在意我。”
　　“你真是滑稽，乔治，”朱利安叹了口气，“我们喜欢你，我们不希望你这么不开心，如果我们知道你不开心，我们怎么能玩得开心？还有对蒂米也是如此。”
　　“不要担心我，”乔治声音嘶哑着说，“我要去找蒂米，今天我不去上课。”
　　“乔治！你必须去！”迪克和朱利安异口同声。
　　“没有什么‘必须’，我就是不去，我绝对不会和罗兰德先生一起上课，除非他可以让蒂米进屋。”
　　“但是你知道你不能那样做，你可能会被打一顿屁股或受到其他惩罚。”迪克说。
　　“如果事情变得太糟糕，我可以逃跑，”乔治声音颤抖着说，“我会和蒂米一起逃。”
　　她走出房间，猛地关上了门。其他人盯着她——对乔治这样固执的人，能做什么呢？所有人都可以用善良和宽容来感化她，但是当她遇到任何不喜欢她的人或者她不喜欢的人时，她就像一匹受惊的野马一样无法驯服，也会像一匹受惊的野马一样伤及他人！
　　罗兰德先生拿着书走进客厅，对这三个孩子笑了笑：“好了，大家都准备好了，乔治呢？”
　　没有人回答，没有人会出卖乔治！
　　“难道你们不知道她在哪儿吗？”罗兰德先生惊讶地问，他看着朱利安。
　　“不知道，先生，”朱利安说实话，“我不知道她在哪儿。”
　　“好吧，也许她过会儿就来了，”罗兰德先生说，“我想是去喂狗了。”
　　他们开始上课。时间一点一点地过去了，却始终不见乔治进来。罗兰德先生瞥了一眼时钟，不耐烦地用舌头发出“嗒”的声音，说道：“真的，乔治竟然迟到这么久！安妮，你去找找她。”
　　安妮去了卧室，乔治不在。她又去厨房，厨师乔安娜在那里做蛋糕，她给了安妮一块热乎乎的蛋糕，但她也不知道乔治在哪里。
　　安妮无功而返，罗兰德先生很生气：“我必须告诉她爸爸，我以前从没见过这么叛逆的孩子，是她自己不断给自己制造麻烦。”
　　直到课间休息，乔治也没有出现。朱利安溜出去，看到院子里的狗窝空了。乔治肯定带着和蒂米一起出去了！她回来以后将会是一场暴风雨！
　　课间休息后孩子们又继续学习其他课程，不过一场暴风雨马上来临。
　　昆廷叔叔冲进客厅，看起来十分着急沮丧。“有没有孩子进过我的书房？”他问。
　　“没有，昆廷叔叔。”大家都回答。
　　“你说过我们不能进去。”朱利安说。
　　“怎么了，先生？”罗兰德先生问，“发生了什么事？”
　　“是这样的，我昨天为实验设置的试管被打碎了，更糟糕的是，我的书稿中有三页非常重要的信息丢失了。”昆廷叔叔说，“我可以再把它们写出来，但这要经过大量的工作。我想不通，你们确定吗，孩子们，谁都没有动过我书房的东西？”
　　“确定。”他们回答。但安妮的脸通红，因为她突然想起乔治告诉她的事，乔治说她昨晚把蒂米带到了昆廷叔叔的书房里，用药油给蒂米揉了胸口！但乔治不可能打破试管啊，更不可能从她爸爸的书稿中撕下那几页！
　　罗兰德先生注意到安妮脸红了。“你知道这件事，安妮？”他问道。
　　“不知道，罗兰德先生。”安妮的脸更红了，神态非常不自然。
　　“乔治在哪儿？”昆廷叔叔突然说道。
　　孩子们什么都没说。罗兰德先生回答说：“我们不知道，她今天早上没有来上课。”
　　“没来上课！为什么？”昆廷叔叔眉头紧锁。
　　“她没有说，”罗兰德先生干巴巴地说，“我想她很不高兴，因为昨晚我们没有让蒂米进屋，先生，这是她反抗的方式。”
　　“这孩子！”昆廷叔叔气愤地说，“我不知道她最近是怎么了，范妮，快来！你知道乔治今天没有上课吗？”范妮婶婶走进客厅，满脸担心。她手里拿着一个小瓶子，孩子们想知道那是什么。
　　“没有上课！”范妮婶婶重复道，“太反常了，她在哪儿？”
　　“我认为完全不必担心她，”罗兰德先生平静地说，“她可能是发脾气，带着蒂米出去了。不过先生，你的书稿丢失才是更重要的，我只希望不是乔治干的，希望她不是因为你不允许她让蒂米进屋，而故意报复。”
　　“当然不是乔治！”迪克生气地说，他不允许有人怀疑堂妹。
　　“乔治永远不会做那样的事情。”朱利安也说。
　　“她永远不会。”安妮嘴上为堂姐据理力争，可是心中竟有一丝怀疑，毕竟乔治昨晚确实去了书房！
　　“昆廷，我了解乔治，她甚至都不会想到这样的事情，”范妮婶婶说，“也许过会儿你就会在什么地方找到这几页，至于那些被打破的试管，也许是风吹过窗帘给碰倒的，或者其他原因。你再想想上次看到这几页是什么时候？”
　　“昨晚，”昆廷叔叔说，“昨晚我又检查了一遍，确保我的计算正确，这几页可是秘方的核心！如果落到别人手里，他们可能会窃取我的数据，这可就麻烦了！我必须查个水落石出。”
　　“我在你的书房里找到了这个，昆廷，”范妮婶婶说着举起了带来的小瓶子，“是你把它放在那儿的吗？在暖炉的挡泥板上。”
　　昆廷叔叔拿起瓶子仔细看：“樟脑油！当然不是我放的。我为什么要拿这个？”
　　“好吧，那这是谁把它放到那儿的呢？”范妮婶婶疑惑地说，“也没有孩子感冒，而且无论如何，他们也不会想到樟脑油，还把它带进书房中，这可很反常！”
　　大家都感到惊讶，为什么书房壁炉的挡泥板上会出现一瓶樟脑油？只有一个人——安妮除外，她想起乔治曾说她把蒂米带进了书房，用药油给蒂米揉了前胸！因为蒂米感冒咳嗽，这就是原因，所以乔治把樟脑油落在书房了。天哪！天哪！现在可怎么办？乔治怎么会忘了把药油拿走！
　　看着樟脑油，安妮的脸又红了。罗兰德先生今天早上的眼神非常犀利，他看着安妮：“安妮，你好像知道这瓶樟脑油是怎么回事！
　　你知道什么？是你把它放在那里的吗？”
　　“不，我没有进过书房，我没有。”安妮干脆地回答。
　　“那你知道这瓶樟脑油为什么会在那里吗？”罗兰德先生再次说中要害，“你明明知道些什么。”
　　每个人都盯着安妮，安妮也盯着大家，这简直太可怕了！不能出卖乔治，绝对不能。乔治本来就陷入麻烦了。于是安妮噘起小嘴，什么也没说。
　　“安妮！”罗兰德先生严厉地说，“别人问你话，你要回答。”安妮还是什么也没说。两个男孩盯着她，猜测这跟乔治有关系，但他们不知道乔治在前一天晚上带蒂米进过书房。
　　“安妮，亲爱的，”范妮婶婶温柔地说，“告诉我们你知道的，这可能有助于我们找到昆廷叔叔丢失的那几页重要的书稿，这非常非常重要。”
　　安妮仍然没有说，她的眼中充满了泪水。朱利安抱住自己的妹妹。“不要打扰安妮，”他对大人们说，“如果她认为不能说，一定有自己的理由。”
　　“我认为她是在包庇乔治，”罗兰德先生说，“安妮，是不是？”
　　安妮已经泪流满面，朱利安搂着他的小妹妹，再次对三个大人说：“不要逼安妮！难道你们看不出她很难过吗？”
　　罗兰德先生说：“那我们就让乔治自己说，我确定她知道瓶子是怎么回事，如果是乔治把它放在那里，那她一定进过书房，而且，她是唯一一个去过那里的人。”
　　朱利安和迪克一时语塞，想不到乔治会给昆廷叔叔的工作捣蛋。安妮很害怕罗兰德先生，躲在朱利安的怀里抽泣。
　　“乔治一回家，就让她来我的书房，”昆廷叔叔烦躁地说，“这些乱七八糟的事让我怎么工作？所以我反对孩子住在家里。”他气冲冲地走了，双手交叉、眉头紧锁，高大的身影消失在视线中。
　　昆廷叔叔走后，孩子们松了一口气。罗兰德先生迅速把书放在桌子上。“我们今天早上就上到这里吧，”他说，“你们出去散步吧，晚餐时间回来就可以。”
　　“是的，去吧，”范妮婶婶脸色苍白，很是担心，“这是个好主意。”罗兰德先生和范妮婶婶也离开了客厅。
　　“我不知道罗兰德先生是不是要和我们一起出去，”朱利安压低声音，“但是我们必须溜出去，我们得找到乔治，告诉她发生的事。”
　　“对！”迪克说，“安妮，快拿好你的东西，在罗兰德先生下来之前，我们从花园溜出去。我打赌乔治一定去了她最喜欢的悬崖上散心。我们去找她！”
　　三个孩子穿戴好，悄悄地从花园的小门爬出去，赶在罗兰德先生知道之前，沿着花园的小路溜出了大门！他们向悬崖出发，去找乔治。
　　“快看，是她！还有蒂米！”朱利安指着前面，“乔治！乔治！快过来，我们有事要告诉你！”
Chapter Twelve GEORGE IN TROUBLE
Chapter Twelve GEORGE IN TROUBLE
　　'WHAT'S the matter?' asked George, as the three children tore up to her. 'Has something happened?'
　　'Yes, George. Someone has taken three most important pages out of your father's book!' pantedJulian. 'And broken the test-tubes he was making an experiment with. Mr. Roland thinks you mighthave had something to do with it!'
　　'The beast!' said George, her blue eyes deepening with anger. 'As if I'd do a thing like that! Whyshould he think it's me, anyway?'
　　'Well, George, you left that bottle of oil in the study fender,' said Anne. 'I haven't told anyone at allwhat you told me happened last night - but somehow Mr. Roland guessed you had something to dowith the bottle of oil.'
　　'Didn't you tell the boys how I got Timmy indoors?' asked George. 'Well, there's nothing much to tell,Julian, I just heard poor old Tim coughing in the night, and I half-dressed, went down, and took himinto the study, where there was a fire. Mother keeps a bottle of oil that she used to rub her chest withwhen she has a cough - so I thought it might do Timmy's cold good, too. I got the oil and rubbed himwell - and we both fell asleep by the fire till six o'clock. I was sleepy when I woke up, and forgot theoil. That's all.'
　　'And you didn't take any pages from the book Uncle Quentin is writing, and you didn't break anythingin the study, did you?' said Anne.
　　'Of course not, silly,' said George, indignantly. 'How can you ask me a thing like that? You must bemad.'
　　George never told a lie, and the others always believed her, whatever she said. They stared at her, andshe stared back.
　　'I wonder who could have taken those pages then?' said Julian. 'Maybe your father will come acrossthem, after all. I expect he put them into some safe place and then forgot all about them.
　　And the test-tubes might easily have over-balanced and broken themselves. Some of them look veryshaky to me.'
　　'I suppose I shall get into trouble now for taking Tim into the study,' said George.
　　61
　　'And for not coming into lessons this morning,' said Dick. 'You really are an idiot, George. I neverknew anyone like you for walking right into trouble.'
　　'Hadn't you better stay out a bit longer, till everyone has calmed down a bit?' said Anne.
　　'No,' said George at once. 'If I'm going to get into a row, I'll get into it now! I'm not afraid!'
　　She marched over the cliff path, with Timmy running round her as usual. The others followed. Itwasn't nice to think that George was going to get into such trouble.
　　They came to the house and went up the path.
　　Mr. Roland saw them from the window and opened the door. He glanced at George.
　　'Your father wants to see you in the study,' said the tutor. Then he turned to the others, lookingannoyed.
　　'Why did you go out without me? I meant to go with you.'
　　'Oh did you, sir? I'm sorry,' said Julian, politely, not looking at Mr. Roland. 'We just went out on thecliff a little way.'
　　'Georgina, did you go into the study last night?' asked Mr. Roland, watching George as she took offher hat and coat.
　　I’ll answer my father's questions, not yours,' said George.
　　'What you want is a good spanking,' said Mr. Roland. 'And if I were your father I'd give it to you!'
　　'You're not my father,' answered George. She went to the study door and opened it. There was no onethere.
　　'Father isn't here,' said George.
　　'He'll be there in a minute,' said Mr. Roland. 'Go in and wait. And you others, go up and wash forlunch.'
　　The other three children felt almost as if they were deserting George as they went up the stairs.
　　They could hear Timmy whining from the yard outside. He knew his little mistress was in trouble,and he wanted to be with her.
　　George sat down on a chair, and gazed at the fire, remembering how she had sat on the rug there withTim last night, rubbing his hairy chest. How silly of her to have forgotten the bottle of oil!
　　Her father came into the room, frowning and angry. He looked sternly at George.
　　'Were you in here last night, George?' he asked.
　　'Yes, I was,' answered George at once.
　　62
　　'What were you doing in here?' asked her father. 'You know you children are forbidden to come intomy study.'
　　'I know,' said George. 'But you see Timmy had a dreadful cough, and I couldn't bear it. So I creptdown about one o'clock and let him in. This was the only room that was really warm, so I sat hereand rubbed his chest with the oil Mother uses when she has a cold.'
　　'Rubbed the dog's chest with camphorated oil!' exclaimed her father, in amazement. 'What a madthing to do! As if it would do him any good.'
　　'It didn't seem mad to me,' said George. 'It seemed sensible. And Timmy's cough is much bettertoday. I'm sorry for coming into the study. I didn't touch a thing, of course.'
　　'George, something very serious has happened,' said her father, looking gravely at her. 'Some of mytest-tubes with which I was doing an important experiment, have been broken - and, worse than that,three pages of my book have gone. Tell me on your honour that you know nothing of these things.'
　　'I know nothing of them,' said George, looking her father straight in the eyes. Her own eyes shonevery blue and clear as she gazed at him. He felt quite certain that George was speaking the truth. Shecould know nothing of the damage done. Then where were those pages?
　　'George, last night when I went to bed at eleven o'clock, everything was in order,' he said. 'I read overthose three important pages and checked them once more myself. This morning they are gone.'
　　'Then they must have been taken between eleven o'clock and one o'clock,' said George. 'I was herefrom that time until six.'
　　'But who could have taken them?' said her father. 'The window was fastened, as far as I know.
　　And nobody knows that those three pages were so important but myself. It is most extraordinary.'
　　'Mr. Roland probably knew,' said George, slowly.
　　'Don't be absurd,' said her father. 'Even if he did realize they were important, he would not have takenthem. He's a very decent fellow. And that reminds me - why were you not at lessons this morning,George?'
　　'I'm not going to do lessons any more with Mr. Roland,' said George. 'I simply hate him!'
　　'George! I will not have you talking like this!' said her father. 'Do you want me to say you are to loseTim altogether?'
　　63
　　'No,' said George, feeling shaky about the knees. 'And I don't think it's fair to keep trying to force meto do things by threatening me with losing Timothy. If - if -you do a thing like that - I'll - I'll runaway or something!'
　　There were no tears in George's eyes. She sat bolt upright on her chair, gazing defiantly at her father.
　　How difficult she was! Her father sighed, and remembered that he too in his own childhood had beencalled 'difficult'. Perhaps George took after him. She could be so good and sweet - and here she wasbeing perfectly impossible!
　　Her father did not know what to do with George. He thought he had better have a word with his wife.
　　He got up and went to the door.
　　'Stay here. I shall be back in a moment. I want to speak to your mother about you.'
　　'Don't speak to Mr. Roland about me, will you?' said George, who felt quite certain that the tutorwould urge terrible punishments for her and Timmy. 'Oh, Father, if only Timothy had been in thehouse last night, sleeping in my room as usual, he would have heard whoever it was that stole yoursecret - and he would have barked and roused the house!'
　　Her father said nothing, but he knew that what George had said was true. Timmy wouldn't have letanyone get into the study. It was funny he hadn't barked in the night, if anyone from outside hadclimbed in at the study window. Still, it was the other side of the house. Maybe he had heard nothing.
　　The door closed. George sat still on her chair, gazing up at the mantelpiece, where a clock tickedaway the time. She felt very miserable. Everything was going wrong, every single thing!
　　As she gazed at the panelled overmantel, she counted the wooden panels. There were eight.
　　Now, where had she heard of eight panels before? Of course - in that Secret Way. There were eightpanels marked on the roll of linen. What a pity there had not been eight panels in a wooden over-mantel at Kirrin Farmhouse!
　　George glanced out of the window, and wondered if it faced east. She looked to see where the sunwas - it was not shining into the room - but it did in the early morning - so it must face east.
　　Fancy - here was a room facing east and with eight wooden panels. She wondered if it had a stonefloor.
　　The floor was covered with a large thick carpet. George got up and went to the wall. She pulled upthe edge of the carpet there - and saw that the floor underneath was made of large flat stones.
　　The study had a stone floor too!
　　64
　　She sat down again and gazed at the wooden panels, trying to remember which one in the roll oflinen was marked with a cross. But of course it couldn't be a room in Kirrin Cottage - it must be inKirrin Farmhouse where the Secret Way began.
　　But just suppose it was Kirrin Cottage! Certainly the directions had been found in Kirrin Farmhouse -but that was not to say that the Secret Way had to begin there, even though Mrs.
　　Sanders seemed to think it did.
　　George was feeling excited. 'I must tap round about those eight panels and try to find the one that ismarked on the linen roll,' she thought. 'It may slide back or something, and I shall suddenly see theentrance opening!'
　　She got up to try her luck - but at that moment the door opened again and her father came in. Helooked very grave.
　　'I have been talking to your mother,' he said. 'She agrees with me that you have been verydisobedient, rude and defiant. We can't let behaviour like that pass, George. You will have to bepunished.'
　　George looked anxiously at her father. If only her punishment had nothing to do with Timothy!
　　But, of course, it had.
　　'You will go to bed for the rest of the day, and you will not see Timothy for three days,' said herfather. 'I will get Julian to feed him and take him for a walk. If you persist in being defiant, Timothywill have to go away altogether. I am afraid, queer as it may seem, that that dog has a bad influenceon you.'
　　'He hasn't, he hasn't!' cried George. 'Oh, he'll be so miserable if I don't see him for three whole days.'
　　'There's nothing more to be said,' said her father. 'Go straight upstairs to bed, and think over all I havesaid to you, George. I am very disappointed in your behaviour these holidays. I really did think theinfluence of your three cousins had made you into a normal, sensible girl. Now you are worse thanyou have ever been.'
　　He held open the door and George walked out, holding her head high. She heard the others havingtheir dinner in the dining-room. She went straight upstairs and undressed. She got into bed andthought miserably of not seeing Tim for three days. She couldn't bear it! Nobody could possiblyknow how much she loved Timothy!
　　65
　　Joanna came up with a tray of dinner. 'Well, Miss, it's a pity to see you in bed,' she said cheerfully.
　　'Now you be a sensible girl and behave properly and you'll soon be downstairs again.'
　　George picked at her dinner. She did not feel at all hungry. She lay back on the bed, thinking of Timand thinking of the eight panels over the mantelpiece. Could they possibly be the ones shown in theSecret Way directions? She gazed out of the window and thought hard.
　　'Golly, it's snowing!' she said suddenly, sitting up. I thought it would when I saw that leaden sky thismorning. It's snowing hard! It will be quite thick by tonight - inches deep. Oh, poor Timothy.
　　I hope Julian will see that his kennel is kept clear of the drifting snow.'
　　George had plenty of time to think as she lay in bed.
　　Joanna came and took the tray away. No one else came to see her. George felt sure the other childrenhad been forbidden to go up and speak to her. She felt lonely and left-out.
　　She thought of her father's lost pages. Could Mr. Roland have taken them? After all, he was veryinterested in her father's work and seemed to understand it. The thief must have been someone whoknew which were the important pages. Surely Timothy would have barked if a thief had come infrom outside, even though the study was the other side of the house. Timmy had such sharp ears.
　　'I think it must have been someone inside the house,' said George. 'None of us children, that's certain- and not Mother or Joanna. So that only leaves Mr. Roland. And I did find him in the study that othernight when Timmy woke me by growling.'
　　She sat up in bed suddenly. 'I believe Mr. Roland had Timothy put out of the house because hewanted to go poking round the study again and was afraid Tim would bark!' she thought. 'He was sovery insistent that Tim should go out of doors - even when everyone else begged for me to have himindoors. I believe -1 really do believe - that Mr. Roland is the thief!'
　　The little girl felt very excited. Could it be that the tutor had stolen the pages - and broken thoseimportant test-tubes? How she wished that the others would come and see her, so that she could talkthings over with them!
12.乔治陷入困境
　　乔治陷入困境
　　“怎么了？”乔治看到三个孩子冲向自己，“发生什么了？”
　　“是的，乔治，有人从昆廷叔叔的书稿中偷了最重要的三页！”朱利安说，“而且还打碎了他正在做试验的试管，罗兰德先生说是你干的！”
　　“可恶！”乔治说，她的蓝眼睛因愤怒而深邃，“难道我像做那种事的人吗！他凭什么认为是我？”
　　“好吧，乔治，你把那瓶药油落在壁炉挡泥板上了，”安妮说，“我没有告诉任何人你昨晚告诉我的事情，但不知怎的，罗兰德先生猜到你和这瓶药油有关。”
　　“你有没有告诉朱利安和迪克，我把蒂米带进屋？”乔治问道，“好吧，其实没什么可说的，朱利安，我只是听到可怜的蒂米在夜里咳嗽，所以穿上衣服下楼，带它进了书房，因为那里还烧着火。我咳嗽的时候，妈妈都会用那瓶药油给我按摩，所以我认为这可能对蒂米的咳嗽有效，我才拿了药油帮蒂米擦前胸。我们就这样在壁炉边睡着了，直到早上六点醒来。那时我很困，忘记了药油，事情就是这样。”
　　“那你没有从昆廷叔叔写的那本书稿中撕下任何一页，也没有破坏书房里的任何东西，对吗？”安妮说。
　　“当然没有，”乔治愤怒地说，“你怎么能怀疑我？你一定是疯了。”
　　乔治从不说谎，大家都相信她，不管她说什么。三人盯着乔治，乔治也盯着大家。
　　“我想知道谁能把这几页偷走？”朱利安说，“也许昆廷叔叔会无意中找到。我希望他是把它们放在了一个安全的地方，现在只是忘了放在哪里。试管可能是因为无意之中失去平衡摔碎的。在我看来，其中几根看上去就不稳当。”
　　乔治说：“我想我现在要把蒂米带到书房中会遇到麻烦。”
　　“今天早上不上课了，”迪克说，“你太傻了，乔治，我从来没见过像你这样的人，总是自找麻烦。”
　　“你最好在外面再待一会儿，直到大家都冷静下来。”安妮说。
　　“不，”乔治立刻说，“如果我要碰到麻烦，那不如现在就去面对！我才不怕！”她沿着悬崖的小路前进，蒂米像往常一样绕着她奔跑。其他人跟着乔治，认为乔治回家以后会有大麻烦等着她。
　　他们走到回家的小路上了，罗兰德先生从窗户看到他们，打开了门。他瞥了一眼乔治。“乔治，你爸爸让你去书房见他。”然后，他生气地对其他人说，“你们为什么没等我就出去了？我本打算一起去的。”
　　“噢，是吗，先生？对不起，”朱利安礼貌地说，但并没有看罗兰德先生，“我们只是沿着悬崖散了会儿步。”
　　“乔治娜，你昨晚进过书房吗？”罗兰德先生看着乔治摘下帽子、脱掉外套。
　　“我会回答我爸爸的问题，而不是你的。”乔治说。
　　“我看你是屁股痒痒了，”罗兰德先生说，“如果我是你爸爸，就会揍你一顿！”
　　“可惜你不是。”乔治说。她打开书房的门，里面没人。
　　“我爸爸不在这里。”乔治说。
　　“他马上回来，”罗兰德先生说，“进去等着，其他人去楼上洗手准备吃午餐。”
　　其他三个孩子感觉他们上楼时几乎抛弃了乔治。他们可以听到蒂米在外面的院子里呜咽，它一定知道亲爱的小主人陷入困境了，它想和乔治在一起。
　　乔治坐在椅子上，凝视着壁炉里的火焰，她记得昨晚和蒂米一起坐在地毯上，揉着它毛茸茸的胸膛。她真是太笨了，竟然忘了那瓶药油！
　　昆廷叔叔走进书房，皱着眉头，非常生气，严厉地看着乔治：“你昨晚在这儿，乔治？”
　　“是的，我来过。”乔治立刻回答。
　　“你来这儿做什么？”她爸爸问，“你应该知道小孩子不能进我的书房。”
　　“我知道，”乔治说，“但是你也看到了，蒂米咳嗽得厉害，我于心不忍，大约凌晨一点钟我就悄悄地把它带进来了，这里是唯一一个还暖和的房间，所以我就坐在这里，用感冒时妈妈用的药油给蒂米揉了胸口。”
　　“你用樟脑油给狗按摩前胸！”她爸爸惊讶地喊，“你真是疯了！
　　就好像这对它有好处一样。”
　　“对我来说不是疯了，”乔治说，“这很奏效，今天蒂米的咳嗽好多了。我很抱歉进了书房，但是，我什么东西都没碰。”
　　“乔治，发生了一件非常严重的事情，”她爸爸严肃地看着她，“我正在做的重要实验，有些试管被打碎了，而且更糟糕的是，我的书稿里有三页丢失了，以你的名誉发誓，你对这些事情一无所知。”
　　“我对此一无所知。”乔治直视着爸爸。昆廷叔叔看到乔治凝视着他时，眼睛里闪着蓝色而清澈的光芒。他确信乔治说的是实话，对发生的失窃之事一无所知。可是那些丢失的书稿在哪里呢？
　　“乔治，我昨晚11点睡觉的时候，一切正常，我重新读了这三页重要的数据，再次检查了一遍，可是今天早上它们丢了。”她爸爸肯定地说。
　　“那么这件事是发生在夜里11点到凌晨一点之间，”乔治说，“凌晨一点时我进入这里，直到早晨六点离开。”
　　“那谁会来偷走它们？”她爸爸说，“据我所知，窗户都反锁了，除了我自己，没有人知道这三页如此重要，这太反常了。”
　　“罗兰德先生可能知道。”乔治慢慢地说。
　　她爸爸生气地说：“不要胡说，即使他确实知道这三页很重要，他也不会偷，罗兰德是个非常体面的人。说到这儿，为什么今天早上你不上课，乔治？”
　　“我不会再跟罗兰德先生上课了，”乔治回答，“我就是讨厌他！”
　　“乔治！我不允许你这样说话！”她爸爸说，“你想让我说你永远都见不到蒂米了吗？”
　　“不，”乔治感觉双腿开始发抖，“用失去蒂米来威胁、强迫我服从，这是不公平的！如果、如果你非要这样做，我就会、我就会离家出走，或者、或者……”
　　乔治眼里没有泪水，她僵直地坐在椅子上，挑衅地盯着爸爸。
　　这孩子太犟了！昆廷叔叔叹了口气，想起自己童年时也被大人们说犟得像牛一样，也许乔治是遗传自己吧。她也可以那么善良乖巧——可是在这件事上，完全不可能！
　　昆廷叔叔不知道如何处置乔治，他认为他最好跟妻子商量一下，于是他起身走到门口：“待在这儿，我马上回来。我想和你妈妈谈谈你的事。”
　　“不要和罗兰德先生谈论我，好吗？”乔治说，她非常肯定罗兰德先生会对她和蒂米施加可怕的惩罚，“爸爸，如果昨晚蒂米像往常一样在我的房间里睡觉，它会听到小偷的声音，它一定会大叫，吵醒房子里所有的人！”
　　昆廷叔叔什么也没说，但他知道乔治所说的是对的，蒂米不会让任何人进入书房。有趣的是，如果有人在外面从书房窗口爬进来，蒂米肯定会发现，可是蒂米夜里并没有叫。不过，书房在房子的另一面，也许蒂米什么都没听到。
　　书房的门关上了，乔治静静地坐在椅子上，凝视着壁炉架，上面的时钟滴答作响。她感到非常痛苦，每件事都出错了！每件事！
　　她凝视着镶有墙板的壁炉架，下意识地数了数墙板，八块！等等，她在哪里听说过八块墙板？当然——密道的地图！亚麻布上画着八个方格！遗憾的是，科林农场的农舍里，并没有八块木制墙板的房间！
　　乔治瞥了一眼窗外，想确定书房是否朝向东方。她看了看太阳所处的位置，此刻并没有阳光照进房间，但清晨时阳光的确是照射进房间的，所以书房是朝东的。乔治没有料到，这间书房的确是一个朝东的房间，有八块墙板。不过，她还要确认一下地板是不是石头铺成的。
　　地板上铺了厚厚的地毯。乔治起身走到墙角，拉起地毯的边缘，下面的地板是用大块的扁平石头做的，这间书房是石头地板！
　　乔治再次坐下来凝视着那几块墙板，试图记起那块亚麻布中哪个方格标有十字标志。但是它不可能在科林庄园的房间里啊，而应该在科林农场——密道开始的地方。
　　但假设它就是在科林庄园呢？虽然密道的地图是在科林农场找到的，但这也不代表密道必须从科林农场那里开始——尽管桑德斯太太似乎这么认为。
　　乔治感到很兴奋。“我必须试试那八块墙板，找到亚麻布上有标记的那块，它可能会向后滑或者翻过去，我就能找到密道的入口！”
　　乔治刚要起身试试运气，门再次被打开，她爸爸回来了，他看起来非常严肃。
　　“我和你妈妈谈了很久，”他说，“她同意我说的。你最近一直非常不听话，粗鲁、叛逆。乔治，我们不能放任你，你得接受惩罚。”
　　乔治焦急地看着爸爸。要是对她的惩罚与蒂米无关就好了！但这是不可能的。
　　“你今天接下来的时间里必须回房间，而且三天内不能见蒂米，”她爸爸说，“我会让朱利安喂它，带它去散步。如果你反抗，蒂米会被送走。那只狗看起来很奇怪，我担心它会对你产生不良影响。”
　　“它没有，它没有！”乔治喊道，“哦，如果我连续三天都没法见到它，它会非常痛苦。”
　　“没有什么可说的，”她爸爸说，“现在马上上楼睡觉，想想我对你说的一切，乔治，我对你这个假期的行为感到非常失望。我曾确实认为，在三个堂兄妹的影响下，你成为一个正常、聪明的女孩了，可现在你比以往任何时候都更糟糕。”
　　他打开门，乔治昂着头走了出去。她听到其他人在餐厅吃饭。
　　她径直上楼换衣服。她躺在床上，想到三天没法见蒂米，她再也忍不住了！没人能够知道她多么爱蒂米！
　　乔安娜进来送晚餐。“好吧，小姐，很遗憾看到你躺在床上，”她说，“但现在你是一个懂事的女孩了，你很快就能下楼来了。”乔治的晚餐吃得很少，她一点也不觉得饿。她躺在床上，想着蒂米，想着壁炉架上的八块墙板。它们可能是亚麻布上标记的那些吗？她凝视着窗外，苦苦思索。
　　“天哪，下雪了！”乔治突然叫道，她坐起来，“今天早上看到天空那么阴沉，我就知道要下大雪了！今晚的雪一定下得很厚，得有几英寸深。哦，可怜的蒂米！希望朱利安能把它的狗窝挪到不会积雪的地方。”
　　现在躺在床上，乔治有充足的时间思考。乔安娜过来拿走了托盘，再没有人来打扰她。乔治确信其他孩子都被禁止上去和她说话，她感到孤独，她被孤立了。她在想，爸爸书稿里失踪的几页是罗兰德先生拿走的吗？毕竟，他对爸爸的工作非常感兴趣，而且似乎也懂这些。小偷一定知道那几页书稿非常重要！如果小偷从外面进来，蒂米肯定会大叫——即使书房在房子的另一侧，因为蒂米的耳朵非常敏锐。
　　“我想小偷就在屋里，”乔治说，“不可能是我们几个小孩子，这是肯定的，也不是妈妈或厨师乔安娜，剩下的就只有罗兰德先生了。而且我确实曾经在书房中看到了他，那天晚上蒂米叫醒了我。”
　　乔治突然跌坐在床上：“我觉得罗兰德先生是故意把蒂米赶出家门，因为他想再次潜入书房偷窃，但他害怕蒂米会叫醒大家！所以他一直坚持蒂米不应该进入房间，即使其他人都请求让蒂米回到房间里。我相信——百分百相信，罗兰德先生就是小偷！”
　　小女孩感到非常兴奋，是罗兰德先生偷了这些页面，打碎了那些重要的试管吗？她多么希望其他人能来看她，这样她就能告诉大家了！
Chapter Thirteen JULIAN HAS A SURPRISE
Chapter Thirteen JULIAN HAS A SURPRISE
　　THE three children downstairs felt very sorry for George. Uncle Quentin had forbidden them to goup and see her.
　　'A little time for thinking out things all alone may do George good,' he said.
　　'Poor old George,' said Julian. 'It's too bad, isn't it? I say - look at the snow!'
　　The snow was falling very thickly. Julian went to the window and looked out. 'I shall have to go andsee that Timmy's kennel is all right,' he said. 'We don't want the poor old fellow to be snowed up! Iexpect he is wondering what the snow is!'
　　Timothy was certainly very puzzled to see everywhere covered with soft white stuff. He sat in hiskennel and stared out at the falling flakes, his big brown eyes following them as they fell to theground. He was puzzled and unhappy. Why was he living out here by himself in the cold?
　　Why didn't George come to him? Didn't she love him any more? The big dog was very miserable, asmiserable as George!
　　He was delighted to see Julian. He jumped up at the boy and licked his face. 'Good old Tim!' saidJulian. 'Are you all right? Let me sweep away some of this snow and swing your kennel round a bitso that no flakes fly inside. There - that's better. No, we're not going for a walk, old thing - not now.'
　　The boy patted the dog and fussed him a bit, then went indoors. The others met him at the sitting-room door.
　　'Julian! Mr. Roland is going out for a walk by himself. Aunt Fanny is lying down, and Uncle Quentinis in his study. Can't we go up and see George?'
　　'We were forbidden to,' said Julian, doubtfully.
　　I know,' said Dick. 'But I don't mind risking it for the sake of making George feel a bit happier. Itmust be so awful for her, lying up there all alone, knowing she can't see Tim for days.'
　　'Well - let me go up, as I'm the eldest,' said Julian. 'You two stay down here in the sitting-room andtalk. Then Uncle Quentin will think we're all here. I'll slip up and see George for a few minutes.'
　　'All right,' said Dick. 'Give her our love and tell her we'll look after Timmy.'
　　67
　　Julian slipped quietly up the stairs. He opened George's door and crept inside. He shut the door, andsaw George sitting up in bed, looking at him in delight.
　　'Sh!' said Julian. 'I'm not supposed to be here!'
　　'Oh Julian!' said George joyfully. 'How good of you to come. I was so lonely. Come this side of thebed. Then if anyone comes in suddenly, you can duck down and hide.'
　　Julian went to the other side of the bed. George began to pour out to him all she had been thinking of.
　　'I believe Mr. Roland is the thief, I really do!' she said. 'I'm not saying that because I hate him, Julian,really I'm not. After all, I did find him snooping round the study one afternoon - and again in themiddle of the night. He may have got to hear of my father's work, and come to see if he could steal it.
　　It was just lucky for him that we needed a tutor. I'm sure he stole those pages, and I'm sure he wantedTimmy out of the house so that he could do his stealing without Tim hearing him and growling.'
　　'Oh, George - I don't think so,' said Julian, who really could not approve of the idea of the tutor doingsuch a thing. 'It all sounds so far-fetched and unbelievable.'
　　'Lot's of unbelievable things happen,' said George. 'Lots. And this is one of them.'
　　'Well, if Mr. Roland did steal the pages, they must be somewhere in the house,' said Julian. 'He hasn'tbeen out all day. They must be somewhere in his bedroom.'
　　'Of course!' said George, looking thrilled. I wish he'd go out! Then I'd search his room.'
　　'George, you can't do things like that,' said Julian, quite shocked.
　　'You simply don't know what things I can do, if I really want to,' said George, setting her mouth in afirm line. 'Oh - what's that noise?'
　　There was the bang of a door. Julian went cautiously to the window and peeped out. The snow hadstopped falling for a time, and Mr. Roland had taken the chance of going out.
　　'It's Mr. Roland,' said Julian.
　　'Oooh - I could search his room now, if you'll keep watch at the window and tell me if he comesback,' said George, throwing back the bedclothes at once.
　　'No, George, don't,' said Julian. 'Honestly and truly, it's awful to search somebody's room like that.
　　And anyway, I dare say he's got the pages with him. He may even be going to give them tosomebody!'
　　68
　　'I never thought of that,' said George, and she looked at Julian with wide eyes. 'Isn't that sickening?
　　Of course he may be doing that. He knows those two artists at Kirrin Farmhouse, for instance. Theymay be in the plot too.'
　　'Oh, George, don't be silly,' said Julian. 'You are making a mountain out of a mole-hill, talking ofplots and goodness knows what! Anyone would think we were in the middle of a big adventure.'
　　'Well, I think we are,' said George, unexpectedly, and she looked rather solemn. 'I sort of feel it allround me - a Big Adventure!'
　　Julian stared at his cousin thoughtfully. Could there possibly be anything in what she said?
　　'Julian, will you do something for me?' said George.
　　'Of course,' said the boy, at once.
　　'Go out and follow Mr. Roland,' said George. 'Don't let him see you. There's a white mackintoshcloak in the hall cupboard. Put it on and you won't be easily seen against the snow. Follow him andsee if he meets anyone and gives them anything that looks like the pages of my father's book- you know those big pages he writes on. They're very large.'
　　'All right,' said Julian. 'But if I do, promise you won't go and search his room. You can't do thingslike that, George.'
　　'I can,' said George. 'But I won't, if you'll just follow Mr. Roland for me. I'm sure he's going to handover what he has stolen to others who are in the plot! And I bet those others will be the two artists atKirrin Farmhouse that he pretended not to know!'
　　'You'll find you're quite wrong,' said Julian, going to the door. 'I'm sure I shan't be able to follow Mr.
　　Roland, anyway - he's been gone five minutes now!'
　　'Yes, you will, silly - he'll have left his footmarks in the snow,' said George. 'And oh, Julian - I quiteforgot to tell you something else exciting. Oh dear, there isn't time now. I'll tell you when you comeback, if you can come up again then. It's about the Secret Way.'
　　'Really?' said Julian, in delight. It had been a great disappointment to him that all their hunting andsearching had come to nothing. 'All right - I'll try and creep up again later. If I don't come, you'llknow I can't, and you must wait till bed-time.'
　　He disappeared and shut the door quietly. He slipped downstairs, popped his head into the sitting-room and whispered to the others that he was going out after the tutor.
　　'Tell you why, later,' he said. He put the white mackintosh cloak around him and went out into thegarden. Snow was beginning to fall again, but not yet heavily enough to hide Mr. Roland's 69deep footsteps. He had had big Wellington boots on, and the footmarks showed up well in the six-inch-deep snow.
　　The boy followed them quickly. The countryside was very wintry-looking now. The sky was low andleaden, and he could see there was much more snow to come. He hurried on after Mr.
　　Roland, though he could not see a sign of the tutor.
　　Down the lane, and over the path that led across the common went the double row of footmarks.
　　Julian stumbled on, his eyes glued to the foot-prints. Suddenly he heard the sound of voices andstopped. A big gorse bush lay to the right and the voices came from there. The boy went nearer to thebush. He heard his tutor's voice, talking in low tones. He could not hear a word that was said.
　　'Whoever can he be talking to?' he wondered. He crept up closer to the bush. There was a hollowspace inside. Julian thought he could creep right into it, though it would be very prickly, and peer outof the other side. Carefully the boy crept into the prickly hollow, where the branches were bare andbrown.
　　He parted the prickly branches slowly and cautiously - and to his amazement he saw Mr. Rolandtalking to the two artists from Kirrin Farmhouse - Mr. Thomas and Mr. Wilton! So George was right.
　　The tutor had met them - and, as Julian watched, Mr. Roland handed over to Mr. Thomas a doubledup sheaf of papers.
　　'They look just like pages from Uncle Quentin's book,' said Julian to himself. 'I say - this is mightyqueer. It does begin to look like a plot - with Mr. Roland as the centre of it!'
　　Mr. Thomas put the papers into the pocket of his overcoat. The men muttered a few more words,which even Julian's sharp ears could not catch, and then parted. The artists went off towards KirrinFarmhouse, and Mr. Roland took the path back over the common. Julian crouched down in thehollow of the prickly gorse bush, hoping the tutor would not turn and see him. Luckily he didn't. Hewent straight on and disappeared into the snow, which was now falling thickly. It was also beginningto get dark and Julian, unable to see the path very clearly, hurried after Mr.
　　Roland, half-afraid of being lost in the snow-storm.
　　Mr. Roland was not anxious to be out longer than he could help, either. He almost ran back to KirrinCottage. He came to the gate at last, and Julian watched him go into the house. He gave him a littletime to take off his things and then, giving Timothy a pat as he went by, he went to 70the garden door. He took off his mackintosh cloak, changed his boots, and slipped into the sitting-room before Mr. Roland had come down from his bedroom.
　　'What's happened?' asked Dick and Anne, seeing that Julian was in a great state of excitement.
　　But he could not tell them, for at that moment Joanna came in to lay the tea.
　　Much to Julian's disappointment, he could not say a word to the others all that evening, because oneor other of the grown-ups was always in the room. Neither could he go up to see George. He couldhardly wait to tell his news, but it was no good, he had to.
　　'Is it still snowing, Aunt Fanny?' asked Anne.
　　Her aunt went to the front door and looked out. The snow was piled high against the step!
　　'Yes,' she said, when she came back. 'It is snowing fast and thickly. If it goes on like this we shall becompletely snowed up, as we were two winters ago! We couldn't get out of the house for five daysthen. The milkman couldn't get to us, nor the baker. Fortunately we had plenty of tinned milk, and Ican bake my-own bread. Poor children - you will not be able to go out tomorrow - the snow will betoo thick!'
　　'Will Kirrin Farmhouse be snowed up too?' asked Mr. Roland.
　　'Oh yes - worse than we shall be,' said Aunt Fanny. 'But they won't mind! They have plenty of foodthere. They will be prisoners just as much, and more, as we shall.'
　　Julian wondered why Mr. Roland had asked that question. Was he afraid that his friends would not beable to send those pages away by the post - or take them anywhere by bus or car? The boy felt certainthis was the reason for the question. How he longed to be able to talk over everything with the others.
　　'I'm tired!' he said, about eight o'clock. 'Let's go to bed.'
　　Dick and Anne stared at him in astonishment. Usually, as he was the eldest, he went to bed last of all.
　　Tonight he was actually asking to go! Julian winked quickly at them, and they backed him up atonce.
　　Dick yawned widely, and so did Anne. Their aunt put down the sewing she was doing. 'You do soundtired!' she said. 'I think you'd better all go to bed.'
　　'Could I just go out and see if Timmy is all right?' asked Julian. His aunt nodded. The boy put on hisrubber boots and coat, and slipped out through the garden door into the yard. It was very deep insnow, too. Tim's kennel was half-hidden in it. The dog had trampled a space in front of the kenneldoor, and stood there, looking for Julian as he came out of the house.
　　71
　　'Poor old boy, out here in the snow all alone,' said Julian. He patted the dog, and Timmy whined.
　　He was asking to go back with the boy.
　　'I wish I could take you back with me,' said Julian. 'Never mind, Timothy. I'll come and see youtomorrow.'
　　He went indoors again. The children said good night to their aunt and Mr. Roland, and went upstairs.
　　'Undress quickly, put on dressing-gowns and meet in George's room,' whispered Julian to the others.
　　'Don't make a sound or we'll have Aunt Fanny up. Quick now!'
　　In less than three minutes the children were undressed, and were sitting on George's bed. She wasvery pleased to see them. Anne slipped into bed with her, because her feet were cold.
　　'Julian! Did you follow Mr. Roland all right?' whispered George.
　　'Why did he follow him?' asked Dick, who had been dying to know.
　　Julian told them everything as quickly as he could - all that George suspected - and how he hadfollowed the tutor - and what he had seen. When George heard how Julian had watched him giving asheaf of papers to the two artists, her eyes gleamed angrily.
　　'The thief! They must have been the lost pages! And to think my father has been so friendly to him.
　　Oh, what can we do? Those men will get the papers away as quickly as they can, and the secretFather has been working on for ages will be used by someone else - for some other country,probably!'
　　'They can't get the papers away,' said Julian. 'You've no idea how thick the snow is now, George.
　　We shall be prisoners here for a few days, if this snow goes on, and so will the people in KirrinFarmhouse. If they want to hide the papers, they will have to hide them in the farmhouse! If only wecould get over there and hunt round!'
　　'Well, we can't,' said Dick. 'That's quite certain. We'd be up to our necks in snow!'
　　The four children looked gloomily at one another. Dick and Anne could hardly believe that the jollyMr. Roland was a thief - a spy perhaps, trying to steal a valuable secret from a friendly scientist. Andthey couldn't stop it.
　　'We'd better tell your father,' said Julian at last.
　　'No,' said Anne. 'He wouldn't believe it, would he, George?'
　　'He'd laugh at us and go straight and tell Mr. Roland,' said George. 'That would warn him, and hemustn't be warned. He mustn't know that we guess anything.'
　　72
　　'Sh! Aunt Fanny's coming!' whispered Dick, suddenly. The boys slipped out of the room and intobed. Anne hopped across to her own little bed. All was peace and quiet when the children's aunt cameinto the bedroom.
　　She said good night and tucked them up. As soon as she had gone down, the four children mettogether again in George's room.
　　'George, tell me now what you were going to say about the Secret Way,' said Julian.
　　'Oh yes,' said George. 'Well, there may be nothing in my idea at all - but in the study downstairs,there are eight wooden panels over the mantelpiece - and the floor is of stone - and the room faceseast! A bit queer, isn't it? Just what the directions said.'
　　'Is there a cupboard there too?' asked Julian.
　　'No. But there is everything else,' said George. 'And I was just wondering if by any chance theentrance to the Secret Way is in this house, not in the farmhouse. After all, they both belonged to myfamily at one time, you know. The people living in the farmhouse years ago must have known allabout this cottage.'
　　'Golly, George - suppose the entrance was here!' said Dick. 'Wouldn't it be simply marvellous!
　　Let's go straight down and look!'
　　'Don't be silly,' said Julian. 'Go down to the study when Uncle Quentin is there? I'd rather meettwenty lions than face Uncle! Especially after what has happened!'
　　'Well, we simply MUST find out if George's idea is right; we simply must,' said Dick, forgetting towhisper.
　　'Shut up, idiot!' said Julian, giving him a punch. 'Do you want to bring the whole household up here?'
　　'Sorry!' said Dick. 'But, oh golly, this is exciting. It's an Adventure again.'
　　'Just what I said,' said George, eagerly. 'Listen, shall we wait till midnight, and then creep down tothe study when everyone is asleep, and try our luck? There may be nothing in my idea at all -but we'll have to find out now. I don't believe I could go to sleep till I've tried one of those panelsover the mantelpiece to see if something happens.'
　　'Well, I know I can't sleep a wink either,' said Dick. 'Listen - is that someone coming up? We'd bettergo.
　　Come on, Julian! Meet in George's room at midnight - and we'll creep down and try out George'sidea!'
　　73
　　The two boys went off to their own room. Neither of them could sleep a wink. Nor could George. Shelay awake, and went over and over in her mind all that had happened those holidays.
　　'It's like a jigsaw puzzle,' she thought. 'I couldn't understand a lot of things at first - but now they arefitting together, and making a picture.'
　　Anne was fast asleep. She had to be awakened at midnight. 'Come on!' whispered Julian, shaking her.
　　'Don't you want to share in this adventure?'
13.朱利安的惊喜
　　朱利安的惊喜
　　楼下的三个孩子对乔治感到很抱歉，可是昆廷叔叔禁止他们上去看她。他说：“花点时间独自思考，可能会让乔治变得更好。”
　　“可怜的乔治，”朱利安说，“太惨了，不是吗？看，下雪了！”
　　雪落得很厚。朱利安走到窗前望向外面：“我必须去看看蒂米的狗窝，我们不能让这个可怜的家伙被积雪掩埋！我想它都不知道雪是什么！”
　　蒂米当然非常困惑。它坐在狗窝里，凝视着片片落下的雪花。
　　雪花落在地上，它那双棕色的大眼睛就跟随到地上。蒂米内心感到困惑和难过，为什么这么寒冷的天气，自己会住在这里？乔治为什么不来看它？她不再爱自己了吗？
　　这只大狗非常悲惨，和乔治一样悲惨！
　　蒂米很高兴看到朱利安，它跳起来舔了舔朱利安的脸颊。“好蒂米！”朱利安说，“你没事吧？让我来扫扫雪，把你的狗窝挪一下，这样雪花就不会飞进去。瞧，那儿不是更好吗？哦，不，我们不是去散步，老伙计，现在不行。”
　　朱利安拍了拍蒂米，揉了揉它的毛发，然后回到房间里。其他人都在客厅等他。
　　“朱利安！罗兰德先生要出去散步，范妮婶婶在休息，昆廷叔叔在书房里。我们不能上去看看乔治吗？”
　　“我们被禁止去见乔治。”朱利安疑惑地说。
　　“我知道，”迪克说，“但我不介意为了见乔治而冒险。她现在一定觉得很糟糕。她只能自己躺在床上，好几天都看不到蒂米。”
　　“好吧，我去，因为我是老大，”朱利安说，“你们两个就在客厅里聊天，这样昆廷叔叔会认为我们都在这里。我溜上去，见乔治几分钟。”
　　“好主意，”迪克说，“把我们的关心转达给她，告诉她我们会照顾好蒂米。”
　　朱利安悄悄地上楼，轻轻打开乔治房间的门。他关上门，看到乔治坐在床上，高兴地看着他。“嘘！”朱利安说，“我不应该出现在这里！”
　　“哦，朱利安！”乔治高兴地说，“你能来真好，我太孤单了。到床边来，这样如果有人突然进来，你可以躲起来。”
　　朱利安走到床的另一边，乔治开始向他倾诉她所想到的一切：“我确信罗兰德先生是小偷，我确定！并不是因为我讨厌他才这么说，朱利安。毕竟，我确实发现他有一天下午围着书房窥探，还有一次是发生在半夜。他可能是听说过我爸爸的工作，想来看看是否能窃取，而恰好我们需要一位家庭教师。我确定是他偷了那几页书稿，他想让蒂米被赶出家门，这样他就可以在蒂米听不到的情况下行窃。”
　　“哦，乔治，我不这么认为，”朱利安真的不能相信罗兰德先生会这样做，“这听起来太牵强了，令人难以置信。”
　　“可是很多令人难以置信的事情发生了，”乔治说，“很多，这只是其中之一。”
　　“好吧，如果罗兰德先生确实是小偷，那这几页书稿一定还在房子里的某个地方。”朱利安说，“他一整天都没出去，那书稿一定在他卧室的某个地方。”
　　“当然！”乔治看起来很激动，“我希望他能出去！然后我会搜查他的房间。”
　　“乔治，你不能做那样的事情。”朱利安非常震惊。
　　“如果我想，我什么都能做，”乔治说，突然她紧闭双唇，“嘘，那是什么声音？”
　　是开关门的声音，朱利安小心翼翼地走到窗前，雪已经停了一段时间，罗兰德先生趁着这个机会出门了。
　　“是罗兰德先生。”朱利安说。
　　“噢，我现在可以去搜查他的房间了，你盯着窗户，告诉我他是否回来了。”乔治立刻掀开被褥。
　　“不，乔治，不，”朱利安说，“老实说，这样去搜查一个人的房间太冒险了。而且，如果是他偷的，他可能会带在身上，把它们交给什么人！”
　　“我倒从没这么想过，”乔治睁大眼睛看着朱利安，“这太卑鄙了！当然他有可能会这样做。例如，他认识科林农场的那两位画家，而他们可能就是同谋。”
　　“哦，乔治，别傻了，”朱利安说，“你这是异想天开，谁会想到这么多的阴谋，大家只会觉得我们想冒险想疯了。”
　　“好吧，我想我们确实是的，”乔治意外地说，她看起来很严肃，“我觉得发生在我身边的这一切就是一次大冒险！”
　　朱利安若有所思地盯着乔治，她说的这些有可能吗？
　　“朱利安，你能帮我个忙吗？”乔治说。
　　“当然。”朱利安立刻说。
　　“出去跟着罗兰德先生，”乔治说，“别让他看见你，大厅的柜子里有一件白色的雨衣。披上它，这样在冰天雪地里你就很难被发现。你跟着他，看看他是不是去见什么人，是不是把我爸爸的书稿交给别人。你认得我爸爸写的那些书稿，非常大。”
　　“好吧，”朱利安说，“但如果我这样做，你得保证不会去搜查他的房间。你不能做那样的事，乔治。”
　　“我可以，”乔治说，“如果你能跟踪罗兰德先生，我就不去。我相信他是去把偷来的东西交给什么人了！我敢打赌，对方就是科林农场的那两位画家，他只是假装不认识！”
　　“你会发现你错了，”朱利安说着走到门口，“可是不管怎么说，我肯定跟不上罗兰德先生，他现在已经走了五分钟了！”
　　“你可以的，傻瓜，他的脚印会留在雪地上，”乔治说，“哦，朱利安，我完全忘了要告诉你另外一件令人兴奋的事情。不过，天哪，现在没时间了。你回来的时候我会告诉你的，如果你能再来这里一次的话，是关于密道的。”
　　“真的吗？”朱利安高兴地说，他们那次的搜寻没有成功，这让他感到非常失望，“好，等我回来，我会再来看你的。如果我不来，你就知道我脱不开身，你一定要等到睡觉的时间。”
　　朱利安悄悄地关上门。他溜到楼下，把头探进客厅，低声告诉迪克和安妮，他要跟踪罗兰德先生。“以后我会告诉你们为什么。”他说道。
　　朱利安把白色雨衣披在身上，走进了花园。雪又开始下起来，但还不足以掩盖罗兰德先生深深的脚印。罗兰德先生穿的是超大的惠灵顿靴子，脚印在六英寸深的雪地上清晰可见。
　　朱利安很快循着脚印赶上。郊外的冬天非常冷清，天空阴沉沉的，雪马上要覆盖住地面，朱利安匆匆跟踪着，虽然他还看不见罗兰德先生的身影。
　　在车道下方，穿过公路的路径上有两排脚印，朱利安跌跌撞撞，眼睛紧盯着脚印。突然，他听到有声音，便停了下来。巨大的金雀花灌木就在他的右边，声音来自那里。朱利安慢慢靠近灌木丛。他听到了罗兰德先生的声音，说话的声音很低，他一句也听不清。
　　“他在和谁说话？”朱利安很好奇，于是他蹑手蹑脚地靠近灌木丛。灌木丛里有一个空间，朱利安觉得可以钻到中间去，虽然会被刺痛，但他还是小心翼翼地爬进了长满刺的灌木丛中间，那里有光秃秃的棕色枝条。
　　朱利安谨慎地拨开了长满刺的枝条，令他惊讶的是，他看到罗兰德先生与住在科林农场的两位画家——托马斯先生和威尔顿先生在交谈！乔治是对的！罗兰德先生是来见他们的，而且正如朱利安所看到的那样，罗兰德先生递给托马斯先生一堆文件。
　　“看起来就像昆廷叔叔的书稿一样，”朱利安对自己说，“这确实像是密谋好的一样，这是个圈套，以罗兰德先生为中心的团伙！”
　　只见托马斯先生把那些文件放进大衣口袋，三个男人又嘀咕了几句，但朱利安伸长耳朵也听不到。然后那三个男人分开了，画家们向科林农场走去，罗兰德先生原路返回。
　　朱利安蹲在多刺的金雀花灌木丛中，希望罗兰德先生不要转身看见他。幸运的是，他并没被发现。罗兰德先生径直走了过去，消失在雪地里。
　　现在雪下得很厚，天空也开始变得更暗了。朱利安无法看清回去的路，于是赶紧跟上罗兰德先生，以免在暴风雪中迷了路。
　　罗兰德先生也不想在外面逗留的时间过长，于是一路小跑回到科林庄园。他终于到了门口，朱利安眼看着他进了房间。趁罗兰德先生脱掉外套和靴子的时间，朱利安才向房间里走去，路过花园门口时他还轻轻拍了一下蒂米。在罗兰德先生从卧室下来之前，朱利安迅速脱掉雨衣，换了靴子，溜进了客厅。
　　“发生了什么事？”迪克和安妮看到朱利安处于极度兴奋状态，好奇地问。但朱利安没法告诉他们，因为那时乔安娜正在客厅喝茶。令朱利安失望的是，那天晚上他不能对其他人说任何一句跟此事有关的话，因为总有大人待在房间里。他也不能溜去见乔治。他迫不及待地想把这个消息告诉乔治，可是不行——他不能冲动。
　　“还在下雪吗，范妮婶婶？”安妮问。
　　范妮婶婶走到门前向外张望，积雪已经堆得和台阶一样高了！“是的，”范妮婶婶说，“还是鹅毛大雪，如果继续这样下去，我们就完全被大雪困住了，两年前的冬天就是这样，那时我们被困在这里五天，牛奶工来不了，面包师也来不了。还好我们存了足够的罐装牛奶，我们可以自己烤面包。可怜的孩子们，你们明天不能出去了，雪太厚了！”
　　“科林农场也会积雪吗？”罗兰德先生问。
　　“哦，是的，比我们这里还要糟糕。”范妮婶婶说，“但他们不会介意的！那里有很多食物，但会像我们一样被困住，哪儿也去不了。”
　　朱利安好奇罗兰德先生为什么要问这个问题：他是不是担心他的同谋没法去邮局将这些书稿寄出去，或者没办法乘坐公共汽车或轿车离开？朱利安觉得这就是问题的答案，他迫切渴望能够与其他人谈论这些。
　　“我累了！”大概八点钟的时候，朱利安说，“该去睡觉了。”
　　迪克和安妮惊讶地盯着他。作为老大，朱利安通常都是最后去睡觉的，今晚他竟然这么早就要去睡了！朱利安迅速向他们眨了眨眼睛，迪克和安妮马上明白了。
　　迪克打了个哈欠，安妮也是。范妮婶婶放下手中正在做的缝纫活儿：“你们一定是累了！你们最好全都上床睡觉去吧。”
　　“我可以出去看看蒂米是否还好吗？”朱利安问。范妮婶婶点点头。朱利安穿上橡胶靴和外套，从花园门口溜进院子里。雪非常深，蒂米的狗窝有一半被掩藏其中。蒂米在狗窝前面踩出一些空间，站在那里，等着朱利安。
　　“可怜的蒂米，独自待在雪地里。”朱利安拍了拍蒂米。蒂米也呜咽起来，它想和朱利安一起进屋。
　　“我希望我能带你回去，”朱利安说，“没关系，蒂米，我明天就会来看你。”
　　朱利安回到屋里，孩子们对范妮婶婶和罗兰德先生道了晚安，上楼去了。
　　“快换上睡衣，我们在乔治的房间里见，”朱利安对两人低声说，“不要发出任何声音，否则我们会吵到范妮婶婶。快去！”
　　不到三分钟，孩子们都坐到了乔治的床上，乔治很高兴见到他们。安妮直接溜上了乔治的床，因为她的脚很冷。
　　“朱利安！你跟踪罗兰德先生了吗？”乔治低声说。
　　“为什么要跟着他？”迪克好奇极了。
　　于是朱利安迅速给他们讲了事情的经过，从乔治的怀疑，到他的一路跟踪，以及他所看到的一切。当乔治听到朱利安说他亲眼看到罗兰德先生给两位画家一堆文件时，她的眼睛闪现出愤怒的光芒。
　　“小偷！那一定是丢失的书稿！想到我爸爸对他如此友好，真可恨！哦，我们能做些什么？那些人一定会尽快把书稿转移，我爸爸一直在做的研究会被其他人窃取，也许会被其他国家窃取！”乔治愤怒地说。
　　“他们还无法转移书稿，”朱利安说，“你不知道现在的雪有多厚，乔治。如果这场大雪继续下去，我们就会被困在这里好几天，科林农场也会如此。如果他们想把书稿藏起来，也只能把它们藏在农场里！我们可以到那儿去找找！”
　　“可是，我们去不了啊，”迪克说，“这是一定的，雪会没过我们的脖子！”
　　四个孩子愁眉苦脸地互相看看，迪克和安妮几乎不敢相信风趣的罗兰德先生是个小偷——也许还是个间谍，正试图从一位友善的科学家那里窃取宝贵的机密，而他们却无法阻止。
　　“我们最好告诉昆廷叔叔。”朱利安说。
　　“不，”安妮说，“他不会相信的吧，乔治？”
　　“他会嘲笑我们，然后直接告诉罗兰德先生，”乔治说，“这会惊动罗兰德先生。我们不能惊动罗兰德先生，不能让他知道我们的猜测。”
　　“嘘，范妮婶婶来了！”迪克突然低声说。两个男孩溜出房间，回到床上，安妮跳到自己的小床上。范妮婶婶走进卧室，一切正常。她跟他们说了晚安，并帮他们把被子塞好。范妮婶婶一走，四个孩子又在乔治的房间碰头了。
　　“乔治，现在快告诉我你对密道的看法。”朱利安说。
　　“哦，对，”乔治说，“好吧，我的想法可能根本没谱，但在楼下的书房里，壁炉架上有八块墙板，地板是石头做的，房间是朝东的！这有点奇怪，不是吗？正如亚麻布上所说的那样。”
　　“那里也有柜子吗？”朱利安问。
　　“没有，但其他的一切都有，”乔治说，“我只是好奇——密道的入口是在这栋房子里，而不是在科林农场。毕竟，它们曾经都属于我们家，你们知道的。许多年前住在农场的人们，一定知道关于这栋房子的一切。”
　　“天哪，乔治，假设密道的入口在这里！”迪克说，“这不是更简单了吗！我们直接去试试吧！”
　　“别傻了，”朱利安说，“昆廷叔叔在书房里，我们去研究？我宁愿面对20头狮子，也不想面对昆廷叔叔！特别是知道真相之后！”
　　“好吧，我们只是得知道乔治的想法是否正确，我们必须得……”迪克说道，却忘记了压低声音。
　　“闭嘴！”朱利安捶了他一下，“你想把所有人引过来吗？”
　　“对不起！”迪克说，“但是，哦，天哪，太令人兴奋了！这又是一次冒险。”
　　“正如我说的那样，”乔治急切地说道，“听着，我们要等到午夜，然后在所有人睡着的时候溜到书房，试试运气。我的想法可能是无稽之谈，但我们现在必须找出答案。不去试试壁炉架上的墙板，看看是否有什么事情发生，我想我根本睡不着。”
　　“好吧，我也睡不着觉，”迪克说，“听，是有人上楼了吗？我们最好赶紧走，朱利安！我们午夜在乔治的房间里见面，然后悄悄去试试乔治的想法！”
　　两个男孩回到了自己的房间，他们谁也没有闭眼睡觉。乔治也是，她一直醒着，这个假期以来的一幕幕在她的脑海里一遍又一遍地闪过：“这就像一个拼图游戏，起初，我无法理解很多东西，但现在它们慢慢地拼凑在一起，形成了一幅完整的画面。”
　　安妮很快就睡着了，但在午夜被叫醒。“快起来！”朱利安低声说着摇了摇安妮，“难道你不想参与这次冒险吗？”
Chapter Fourteen THE SECRET WAY AT LAST!
Chapter Fourteen THE SECRET WAY AT LAST!
　　THE four children crept downstairs through the dark and silent night. Nobody made a sound at all.
　　They made their way to the study. George softly closed the door and then switched on the light.
　　The children stared at the eight panels over the mantelpiece. Yes - there were exactly eight, four inone row and four in the row above. Julian spread the linen roll out on the table, and the childrenpored over it.
　　'The cross is in the middle of the second panel in the top row,' said Julian, in a low voice. I’ll trypressing it. Watch, all of you!'
　　He went to the fireplace. The others followed him, their hearts beating fast with excitement.
　　Julian stood on tiptoe and began to press hard in the middle of the second panel. Nothing happened.
　　'Press harder! Tap it!' said Dick.
　　'I daren't make too much noise,' said Julian, feeling all over the panel to see if there was anyroughness that might tell of a hidden spring or lever.
　　Suddenly, under his hands, the panel slid silently back, just as the one had done at Kirrin Farmhousein the hall! The children stared at the space behind, thrilled.
　　'It's not big enough to get into,' said George. 'It can't be the entrance to the Secret Way.'
　　Julian got out his torch from his dressing-gown pocket. He put it inside the opening, and gave a lowexclamation.
　　74
　　'There's a sort of handle here - with strong wire or something attached to it. I'll pull it and see whathappens.'
　　He pulled - but he was not strong enough to move the handle that seemed to be embedded in the wall.
　　Dick put his hand in and the two boys then pulled together.
　　'It's moving - it's giving way a bit,' panted Julian. 'Go on, Dick, pull hard!'
　　The handle suddenly came away from the wall, and behind it came thick wire, rusty and old. At thesame time a curious grating noise came from below the hearthrug in front of the fireplace, and Annealmost fell.
　　'Julian! Something is moving under the rug!' she said, frightened. 'I felt it. Under the rug, quick!'
　　The handle could not be pulled out any farther. The boys let go, and looked down. To the right of thefireplace, under the rug, something had moved. There was no doubt of that. The rug sagged downinstead of being flat and straight.
　　'A stone has moved in the floor,' said Julian, his voice shaking with excitement. 'This handle works alever, which is attached to this wire. Quick - pull up the rug, and roll back the carpet.'
　　With trembling hands the children pulled back the rug and the carpet - and then stood staring at avery strange thing. A big flat stone laid in the floor had slipped downwards, pulled in some mannerby the wire attached to the handle hidden behind the panel! There was now a black space where thestone had been.
　　'Look at that!' said George, in a thrilling whisper. 'The entrance to the Secret Way!'
　　'It's here after all!' said Julian.
　　'Let's go down!' said Dick.
　　'No!' said Anne, shivering at the thought of disappearing into the black hole.
　　Julian flashed his torch into the black space. The stone had slid down and then sideways. Below wasa space just big enough to take a man, bending down.
　　'I expect there's a passage or something leading from here, under the house, and out,' said Julian.
　　'Golly, I wonder where it leads to?'
　　'We simply must find out,' said George.
　　'Not now,' said Dick. 'It's dark and cold. I don't fancy going along the Secret Way at midnight. I don'tmind just hopping down to see what it's like - but don't let's go along any passage till tomorrow.'
　　'Uncle Quentin will be working here tomorrow,' said Julian.
　　75
　　'He said he was going to sweep the snow away from the front door in the morning,' said George.
　　'We could slip into the study then. It's Saturday. There may be no lessons.'
　　'All right,' said Julian, who badly wanted to explore everything then and there. 'But for goodness sakelet's have a look and see if there is a passage down there. At present all we can see is a hole!'
　　I’ll help you down,' said Dick. So he gave his brother a hand and the boy dropped lightly down intothe black space, holding his torch. He gave a loud exclamation.
　　'It's the entrance to the Secret Way all right! There's a passage leading from here under the house- awfully low and narrow - but I can see it's a passage. I do wonder where it leads to!'
　　He shivered. It was cold and damp down there. 'Give me a hand up, Dick,' he said. He was soon outof the hole and in the warm study again.
　　The children looked at one another in the greatest joy and excitement. This was an Adventure, a realAdventure. It was a pity they couldn't go on with it now.
　　'We'll try and take Timmy with us tomorrow,' said George. 'Oh, I say - how are we going to shut theentrance up?’
　　'We can't leave the rug and carpet sagging over that hole,' said Dick. 'Nor can we leave the panelopen.'
　　'We'll see if we can get the stone back,' said Julian. He stood on tiptoe and felt about inside the panel.
　　His hand closed on a kind of knob, set deep in a stone. He pulled it, and at once the handle slid back,pulled by the wire. At the same time the sunk stone glided to the surface of the floor again, making aslight grating sound as it did so.
　　'Well, it's like magic!' said Dick. 'It really is! Fancy the mechanism working so smoothly after yearsof not being used. This is the most exciting thing I've ever seen!'
　　There was a noise in the bedroom above. The children stood still and listened.
　　'It's Mr. Roland!' whispered Dick. 'He's heard us. Quick, slip upstairs before he comes down.'
　　They switched out the light and opened the study door softly. Up the stairs they fled, as quietly asIndians, their hearts thumping so loudly that it seemed as if everyone in the house must hear the beat.
　　The girls got safely to their rooms and Dick was able to slip into his. But Julian was seen by Mr.
　　Roland as he came out of his room with a torch.
　　76
　　'What are you doing, Julian?' asked the tutor, in surprise. 'Did you hear a noise downstairs? I thoughtI did.'
　　'Yes - I heard quite a lot of noise downstairs,' said Julian, truthfully. 'But perhaps it's snow falling offthe roof, landing with a plop on the ground, sir. Do you think that's it?'
　　'I don't know,' said the tutor doubtfully. 'We'll go down and see.'
　　They went down, but of course, there was nothing to be seen. Julian was glad they had been able toshut the panel and make the stone come back to its proper place again. Mr. Roland was the very lastperson he wanted to tell his secret to.
　　They went upstairs and Julian slipped into his room. 'Is it all right?' whispered Dick.
　　'Yes,' said Julian. 'Don't let's talk. Mr. Roland's awake, and I don't want him to suspect anything.'
　　The boys fell asleep. When they awoke in the morning, there was a completely white world outside.
　　Snow covered everything and covered it deeply. Timothy's kennel could not be seen!
　　But there were footmarks round about it.
　　George gave a squeal when she saw how deep the snow was. 'Poor Timothy! I'm going to get him in.
　　I don't care what anyone says! I won't let him be buried in the snow!'
　　She dressed and tore downstairs. She went out to the kennel, floundering knee deep in the snow.
　　But there was no Timmy there!
　　A loud bark from the kitchen made her jump. Joanna the cook knocked on the kitchen window.
　　'It's all right! I couldn't bear the dog out there in the snow, so I fetched him in, poor thing. Yourmother says I can have him in the kitchen but you're not to come and see him.'
　　'Oh, good - Timmy's in the warmth!' said George, gladly. She yelled to Joanna, 'Thanks awfully!
　　You are kind!'
　　She went indoors and told the others. They were very glad. 'And I've got a bit of news for you'
　　said Dick. 'Mr. Roland is in bed with a bad cold, so there are to be no lessons today. Cheers!'
　　'Golly, that is good news,' said George, cheering up tremendously. 'Timmy in the warm kitchen andMr. Roland kept in bed. I do feel pleased!'
　　'We shall be able to explore the Secret Way safely now,' said Julian. 'Aunt Fanny is going to dosomething in the kitchen this morning with Joanna, and Uncle is going to tackle the snow. I vote wesay we'll do lessons by ourselves in the sitting-room, and then, when everything is safe, we'll explorethe Secret Way!'
　　'But why must we do lessons?' asked George in dismay.
　　77
　　'Because if we don't, silly, we'll have to help your father dig away the snow,' said Julian.
　　So, to his uncle's surprise, Julian suggested that the four children should do lessons by themselves inthe sitting-room. 'Well, I thought you'd like to come and help dig away the snow,'
　　said Uncle Quentin. 'But perhaps you had better get on with your work.'
　　The children sat themselves down as good as gold in the sitting-room, their books before them.
　　They heard Mr. Roland coughing in his room. They heard their aunt go into the kitchen and talk toJoanna. They heard Timmy scratching at the kitchen door - then paws pattering down the passage -then a big, inquiring nose came round the door, and there was old Timmy, looking anxiously for hisbeloved mistress!
　　'Timmy!' squealed George, and ran to him. She flung her arms round his neck and hugged him.
　　'You act as if you hadn't seen Tim for a year,' said Julian.
　　'It seems like a year,' said George. 'I say, there's my father digging away like mad. Can't we go to thestudy now? We ought to be safe for a good while.'
　　They left the sitting-room and went to the study. Julian was soon pulling the handle behind the secretpanel. George had already turned back the rug and the carpet. The stone slid downward andsideways. The Secret Way was open!
　　'Come on!' said Julian. 'Hurry!'
　　He jumped down into the hole. Dick followed, then Anne, then George. Julian pushed them all intothe narrow, low passage. Then he looked up. Perhaps he had better pull the carpet and rug over thehole, in case anyone came into the room and looked around. It took him a few seconds to do it. Thenhe bent down and joined the others in the passage. They were going to explore the Secret Way at last!
14.一探究竟
　　一探究竟
　　四个孩子在寂静的黑夜中悄悄下楼，没有人发出声音，他们顺利地进了书房。乔治轻轻地关上门，然后打开灯。
　　孩子们盯着壁炉架上的八块墙板。是的，正好有八块，上下两排分别有四块。朱利安将亚麻布铺在桌子上，孩子们仔细地研究它。
　　“十字位于第一排的第二块墙板中间，”朱利安低声说，“我去试着按下那块墙板。你们看着！”
　　朱利安走到壁炉那儿，其他人跟着他，他们的心跳得很快。朱利安踮起脚尖，开始在第二块墙板的中间用力按压，可是什么都没发生。
　　“用力！使点劲儿！”迪克说。
　　“我不敢发出太大的声音。”朱利安说。他仔细摸索着那块墙板，想看看墙板下面是否有什么机关，比如暗藏着弹簧或杠杆之类的。突然，他手下的墙板慢慢地滑开了，就像在科林农场大厅里的那块一样！孩子们盯着后面的空间，激动不已。
　　“这不够大，”乔治说，“不可能是密道入口。”
　　朱利安从睡袍口袋里掏出手电筒，把它伸进墙板后的空间内，低声惊呼：“这里有个把手，有根强力线或者类似的东西附在上面，让我拉一下，看看会发生什么。”朱利安拉了一下，但他的力量不足以拉动嵌在墙上的把手。迪克也伸出手，两个男孩一起用力。
　　“它在动，有点松动了，”朱利安气喘吁吁地说，“继续，迪克，使劲！”
　　把手突然从墙上掉了下来，后面连着一根粗粗的金属丝。金属丝上锈迹斑斑，一副很旧的样子。与此同时，壁炉炉膛下方的栅栏发出响声，安妮吓得几乎摔倒在地。
　　“朱利安！什么东西在地毯下动！”安妮吓坏了，“我感觉到了，就在地毯下，快！”
　　把手再也拉不动了，两个男孩松开手看。壁炉右边的地毯下面，确实有东西在动。毫无疑问，地毯向下移动了，而不是平行移动。
　　“是地板上的一块石头动了，”朱利安说，他的声音兴奋地颤抖着，“这个把手控制着一根操作杆，而操作杆就连在这根钢丝上。快把地毯拉开，卷起来。”
　　孩子们用颤抖的双手拉开地毯，目瞪口呆。铺在地板上的一块大扁石滑了下去，是被墙板后面把手上的钢丝拉动的！在大扁石原来的位置处，出现了一个黑乎乎的入口。
　　“看！”乔治的声音有些发抖，“是密道的入口！”
　　“入口竟然在这里！”朱利安说。
　　“我们快下去！”迪克说。
　　“不要！”安妮想到要走进黑幽幽的洞里，就害怕得颤抖。
　　朱利安用手电筒照射着那块黑色的空间，石头滑下去后倾斜到了一边，下面的空间足够让人弯腰通过。
　　朱利安说：“我想，在房子下面有一条通道，可以通到外面。天哪，它会通向哪里？”
　　“我们必须找出真相。”乔治说。
　　“不是现在，”迪克说，“现在又黑又冷，我们最好不要深更半夜穿越密道。我不介意跳下去看看它是什么样的，但是如果要穿越密道，我们还是等到明天吧。”
　　“明天昆廷叔叔就会在这里工作了。”朱利安说。
　　“他说他上午要去门前扫雪，”乔治说，“那时我们可以到书房来，而且是星期六，不上课。”
　　“好吧，”朱利安说，他非常想探索密道，“我们至少得看看那里是否有通道，目前我们所能看到的只是一个洞！”
　　“我帮你。”迪克说。于是他帮忙拉着朱利安，朱利安拿着手电筒，轻轻地跳到黑色的空洞里。他大声惊呼：“这就是密道的入口！
　　房子下面有一条通道，又矮又窄，但我可以看出是一条通道，我不知道它通向哪里！”
　　地下通道里既寒冷又潮湿，朱利安冻得瑟瑟发科。“帮我一把，迪克。”朱利安说道。他很快爬出黑洞，再次回到了温暖的书房。
　　孩子们内心充满喜悦，兴奋地互相看着彼此。这是一次冒险，一次真正的冒险！遗憾的是，他们现在不能继续进行下去。
　　“明天我们试试看，把蒂米带来，”乔治说，“哦，我说，我们关上入口？”
　　“我们不能让地毯在那个洞里垂着，”迪克说，“也不能让这块墙板就这样露在外面。”
　　“看看能不能把石头放回原位。”朱利安说着踮起脚尖，把手伸到墙板的内部摸索着。他摸到了一个旋钮，这个旋钮深深地嵌在一块石头上。他拉了一下，然后向后拽。与此同时，之前滑下去的石头又滑向了地面，关闭时发出轻微的摩擦声。
　　“天哪，这就像魔术一样！”迪克说，“真神奇！这么多年都不用，这种机关竟然还非常流畅，这真是我见过的最神奇的事情！”
　　楼上的卧室里有声音，孩子们一动不动，静静听着。“是罗兰德先生！”迪克低声说，“他听到了我们的声音。快，在他下楼之前我们快上楼。”
　　他们关了灯，轻轻地打开书房的门。他们悄悄地跑上楼梯，心里怦怦直跳，他们仿佛都能听见自己的心跳声。女孩们和迪克都顺利溜回了房间。但罗兰德先生却看到朱利安带着手电筒走出房间。
　　“你在做什么，朱利安？”罗兰德先生惊讶地问，“你有没有听到楼下的声音？我以为我听到了什么。”
　　“是的，我听到楼下有声音，”朱利安实话实说，“但也许是从屋顶上掉下来的雪，掉到了地面上。先生，您觉得呢？”
　　“我不知道，”罗兰德先生怀疑地说道，“我们去看看。”
　　他们下了楼，当然，什么都没发现。朱利安很高兴他们已经把墙板和石头复位。罗兰德先生是他最不想透露秘密的人。
　　他们上楼后，朱利安溜回他的房间。“没事吧？”迪克低声说。
　　“没事，”朱利安说，“不要说话，罗兰德先生醒了，我不想让他怀疑。”
　　男孩们睡着了。当他们早上醒来时，外面已经是一片白色的世界，厚重的积雪覆盖着一切。蒂米的狗窝看不见了！但是积雪上有它的脚印。
　　当乔治看到积雪有多深时，她尖叫起来：“可怜的蒂米！我要让它进来。我不管别人怎么说！我绝不会让它被埋在雪中！”
　　她穿好衣服下楼，走到狗窝那里，在没过膝盖的雪地里摸索，但她没有找到蒂米！
　　厨房里传来一声巨响，她吓得跳了起来。厨师乔安娜敲了敲厨房的窗户，说：“没事！我不忍心让蒂米待在雪地里，就把它带进来了，可怜的家伙。范妮女士说我可以让它进厨房，但你不能来看它。”
　　“哦，太好了，蒂米在暖和的屋里！”乔治说道，她高兴极了。
　　她对乔安娜喊道：“非常感谢！你真好！”
　　她走到屋里告诉其他人，大家都很高兴。“我有好消息告诉你，”迪克说，“罗兰德先生在床上休息，他感冒了，所以今天没有课，干杯！”
　　“天哪，这真是个好消息，”乔治非常高兴，“蒂米就在温暖的厨房里，罗兰德先生躺在床上，我真是太高兴了！”
　　“我们现在能够安全地去探索密道了，”朱利安说，“今天早上，范妮婶婶会和乔安娜一起在厨房里忙活，昆廷叔叔打算扫雪。我说我们会在客厅自习，然后，等到安全的时候，我们去探索密道！”
　　“但我们为什么要自习？”乔治沮丧地问。
　　朱利安说：“因为如果我们不这样做，我们就得帮你爸爸铲雪。”
　　昆廷叔叔对朱利安建议孩子们一起在客厅自习大感意外。“好吧，我还以为你们会愿意来帮忙清理积雪呢，”昆廷叔叔说，“但也许你们最好继续学习。”
　　孩子们围坐在客厅里，面前摆着课本，他们听到罗兰德先生在房间里咳嗽，听到范妮婶婶在厨房与乔安娜交谈。他们还听到蒂米在厨房门上蹭来蹭去，又听到它用爪子在过道里拍了几下。突然门口出现了一个大鼻子，是蒂米！它在焦急地寻找心爱的小主人！
　　“蒂米！”乔治尖叫着跑向它，她的手臂搂在蒂米的脖子上，用力抱住它。
　　朱利安说：“你这表现好像一年没见蒂米了。”
　　“我就是度日如年，”乔治说，“我说，我爸爸在疯狂地扫雪呢，我们现在能去书房吗？我们应该安全了。”
　　于是他们离开客厅去了书房。朱利安很快就拉开了那块墙板后面的把手。乔治已经把地毯卷好了，石头向下滑动，然后倾斜到了一边，密道打开了！
　　“来吧！”朱利安说，“快！”
　　他跳到洞里，迪克紧随其后，然后是安妮，最后是乔治。朱利安让他们都进入狭窄的低矮通道里，然后他抬起头来——也许他最好把地毯拉回洞口，以防有人进入房间发现秘密。他花了好长时间才弄好，然后弯下腰，进入通道中追上了侦探团的小伙伴们。他们终于要探索密道了！
Chapter Fifteen AN EXCITING JOURNEY AND HUNT
Chapter Fifteen AN EXCITING JOURNEY AND HUNT
　　TIMOTHY had leapt down into the hole when George had jumped. He now ran ahead of thechildren, puzzled at their wanting to explore such a cold, dark place. Both Julian and Dick hadtorches, which threw broad beams before them.
　　78
　　There was not much to be seen. The Secret Way under the old house was narrow and low, so that thechildren were forced to go in single file, and to stoop almost double. It was a great relief to themwhen the passage became a little wider, and the room a little higher. It was very tiring to stoop all thetime.
　　'Have you any idea where the Secret Way is going?' Dick asked Julian. 'I mean - is it going towardsthe sea, or away from it?'
　　'Oh, not towards the sea!' said Julian, who had a very good sense of direction. 'As far as I can makeout the passage is going towards the common. Look at the walls - they are rather sandy in places, andwe know the common has sandy soil. I hope we shan't find that the passage has fallen in anywhere.'
　　They went on and on. The Secret Way was very straight, though occasionally it would round a rockypart in a curve.
　　'Isn't it dark and cold,' said Anne, shivering. 'I wish I had put on a coat. How many miles have wecome, Julian?'
　　'Not even one, silly!' said Julian. 'Hallo - look here -the passage has fallen in a bit there!'
　　Two bright torches shone in front of them and the children saw that the sandy roof had fallen in.
　　Julian kicked at the pile of sandy soil with his foot.
　　'It's all right,' he said. 'We can force our way through easily. It isn't much of a fall, and it's mostlysand. I'll do a bit of kicking!'
　　After some trampling and kicking, the roof-fall no longer blocked the way. There was now enoughroom for the children to climb over it, bending their heads low to avoid knocking them against thetop of the passage. Julian shone his torch forward, and saw that the way was clear.
　　'The Secret Way is very wide just here!' he said suddenly, and flashed his torch around to show theothers.
　　'It's been widened out to make a sort of little room,' said George. 'Look, there's a kind of bench at theback, made out of the rock. I believe it's a resting-place.'
　　George was right. It was very tiring to creep along the narrow passage for so long. The little wideplace with its rocky bench, made a very good resting-place. The four tired children, cold but excited,huddled together on the queer seat and took a welcome rest. Timmy put his head on George's knee.
　　He was delighted to be with her again.
　　79
　　'Well, come on,' said Julian, after a few minutes. 'I'm getting awfully cold. I do wonder where thispassage comes out!'
　　'Julian - do you think it could come out at Kirrin Farm-house?' asked George, suddenly. 'You knowwhat Mrs. Sanders said - that there was a secret passage leading from the Farmhouse somewhere.
　　Well, this may be the one - and it leads to Kirrin Cottage!'
　　'George, I believe you're right!' said Julian. 'Yes - the two houses belonged to your family years ago!
　　And in the old days there were often secret passages joining houses, so it's quite plain this secret wayjoins them up together! Why didn't I think of that before?'
　　I say!' squealed Anne, in a high, excited voice, 'I say! I've thought of something too!'
　　'What?' asked everyone.
　　'Well - if those two artists have got Uncle's papers, we may be able to get them away before the mencan send them off by post, or take them away themselves!' squeaked Anne, so thrilled with her ideathat she could hardly get the words out quickly enough. 'They're prisoners at the Farmhouse becauseof the snow, just as we were at the Cottage.'
　　'Anne! You're right!' said Julian.
　　'Clever girl!' said Dick.
　　'I say - if we could get those papers again - how wonderful it would be!' cried George. Timmy joinedin the general excitement, and jumped up and down in joy. Something had pleased the children, so hewas pleased too!
　　'Come on!' said Julian, taking Anne's hand. 'This is thrilling. If George is right, and this Secret Waycomes out at Kirrin Farmhouse somewhere, we'll somehow hunt through those men's rooms and findthe papers.'
　　'You said that searching people's rooms was a shocking thing to do,' said George.
　　'Well, I didn't know then all I know now,' said Julian. 'We're doing this for your father - and maybefor our country too, if his secret formula is valuable. We've got to set our wits to work now, to outwitdangerous enemies.'
　　'Do you really think they are dangerous?' asked Anne, rather afraid.
　　'Yes, I should think so,' said Julian. 'But you needn't worry, Anne, You've got me and Dick and Timto protect you.'
　　'I can protect her too,' said George, indignantly. I’m as good as a boy any day!'
　　'Yes, you are, really,' said Dick. 'In fact, you're fiercer than any boy I know!'
　　80
　　'Come on,' said Julian, impatiently. I’m longing to get to the end of this passage.'
　　They all went on again, Anne following behind Julian, and Dick behind George. Timmy ran up anddown the line, squeezing by them whenever he wanted to. He thought it was a very peculiar way tospend a morning!
　　Julian stopped suddenly, after they had gone a good way. 'What's up?' asked Dick, from the back.
　　'Not another roof-fall, I hope!'
　　'No - but I think we've come to the end of the passage!' said Julian, thrilled. The others crowded asclose to him as they could. The passage certainly had come to an end. There was a rocky wall in frontof them, and set firmly in it were iron staples intended for footholds. These went up the wall andwhen Julian turned his torch upwards, the children saw that there was a square opening in the roof ofthe passage.
　　'We have to climb up this rocky wall now,' said Julian, 'go through that dark hole there, keep onclimbing - and goodness knows where we come out! I'll go first. You wait here, everyone, and I'llcome back and tell you what I've seen.'
　　The boy put his torch between his teeth, and then pulled himself up by the iron staples set in the wall.
　　He set his feet on them, and then climbed up through the square dark hole, feeling for the staples ashe went.
　　He went up for a good way. It was almost like going up a chimney shaft, he thought. It was cold andsmelt musty.
　　Suddenly he came to a ledge, and he stepped on to it. He took his torch from his teeth and flashed itaround him.
　　There was stone wall behind him, at the side of him and stone above him. The black hole up whichhe had come yawned by his feet. Julian shone his torch in front of him, and a shock of surprise wentthrough him.
　　There was no stone wall in front of him, but a big wooden, door, made of black oak. A handle was setabout waist-high, Julian turned it with trembling fingers. What was he going to see?
　　The door opened outwards, over the ledge, and it was difficult to get round it without falling backinto the hole. Julian managed to open it wide, squeezed round it without losing his footing, andstepped beyond it, expecting to find himself in a room.
　　81
　　But his hand felt more wood in front of him! He shone his torch round, and found that he was upagainst what looked like yet another door. Under his searching fingers it suddenly moved sideways,and slid silently away!
　　And then Julian knew where he was! 'I'm in the cupboard at Kirrin Farmhouse - the one that has afalse back!' he thought. 'The Secret Way comes up behind it! How clever! Little did we know whenwe played about in this cupboard that not only did it have a sliding back, but that it was the entranceto the Secret Way, hidden behind it!'
　　The cupboard was now full of clothes belonging to the artists. Julian stood and listened. There was nosound of anyone in the room. Should he just take a quick look round, and see if those lost paperswere anywhere about?
　　Then he remembered the other four, waiting patiently below in the cold. He had better go and tellthem what had happened. They could all come and help in the search.
　　He stepped into the space behind the sliding back. The sliding door slipped across again, and Julianwas left standing on the narrow ledge, with the old oak door wide open to one side of him.
　　He did not bother to shut it. He felt about with his feet, and found the iron staples in the hole belowhim. Down he went, clinging with his hands and feet, his torch in his teeth again.
　　'Julian! What a time you've been! Quick, tell us all about it!' cried George.
　　'It's most terribly thrilling,' said Julian. 'Absolutely super! Where do you suppose all this leads to?
　　Into the cupboard at Kirrin Farmhouse - the one that's got a false back!'
　　'Golly! 'said Dick.
　　'I say!' said George.
　　'Did you go into the room?' cried Anne.
　　'I climbed as far as I could and came to a big oak door,' said Julian. 'It has a handle this side, so Iswung it wide open. Then I saw another wooden door in front of me - at least, I thought it was adoor,' I didn't know it was just the false back of that cupboard. It was quite easy to slide back and Istepped through, and found myself among a whole lot of clothes hanging in the cupboard! Then Ihurried back to tell you.'
　　'Julian! We can hunt for those papers now,' said George, eagerly. 'Was there anyone in the room?'
　　'I couldn't hear anyone,' said Julian. 'Now what I propose is this - we'll all go up, and have a huntround those two rooms. The men have the room next to the cupboard one too.'
　　82
　　'Oh good!' said Dick, thrilled at the thought of such an adventure. 'Let's go now. You go first, Ju.
　　Then Anne, then George and then me.'
　　'What about Tim?' asked George.
　　'He can't climb, silly,' said Julian. 'He's a simply marvellous dog, but he certainly can't climb, George.
　　We'll have to leave him down here.'
　　'He won't like that,' said George.
　　'Well, we can't carry him up,' said Dick. 'You won't mind staying here for a bit, will you, Tim, oldfellow?’
　　Tim wagged his tail. But, as he saw the four children mysteriously disappearing up the wall, he puthis big tail down at once. What! Going without him? How could they?
　　He jumped up at the wall, and fell back. He jumped again and whined. George called down to him ina low voice.
　　'Be quiet, Tim dear! We shan't be long.'
　　Tim stopped whining. He lay down at the bottom of the wall, his ears well-cocked. This adventurewas becoming more and more peculiar!
　　Soon the children were on the narrow ledge. The old oak door was still wide open. Julian shone historch and the others saw the false back of the cupboard. Julian put his hands on it and it slid silentlysideways. Then the torch shone on coats and dressing-gowns!
　　The children stood quite still, listening. There was no sound from the room. 'I'll open the cupboarddoor and peep into the room,' whispered Julian. 'Don't make a sound!'
　　The boy pushed between the clothes and felt for the outer cupboard door with his hand. He found it,and pushed it slightly. It opened a little and a shaft of daylight came into the cupboard. He peepedcautiously into the room.
　　There was no one there at all. That was good. 'Come on!' he whispered to the others. 'The room'sempty!'
　　One by one the children crept out of the clothes cupboard and into the room. There was a big bedthere, a wash-stand, chest of drawers, small table and two chairs. Nothing else. It would be easy tosearch the whole room.
　　'Look, Julian, there's a door between the two rooms,' said George, suddenly. 'Two of us can go andhunt there and two here - and we can lock the doors that lead on to the landing, so that no one cancome in and catch us!'
　　83
　　'Good idea!' said Julian, who was afraid that at any moment someone might come in and catch themin their search. 'Anne and I will go into the next room, and you and Dick can search this one. Lockthe door that opens on to the landing, Dick, and I'll lock the one in the other room.
　　We'll leave the connecting-door open, so that we can whisper to one another.'
　　Quietly the boy slipped through the connecting-door into the second room, which was very like thefirst. That was empty too. Julian went over to the door that led to the landing, and turned the key inthe lock. He heard Dick doing the same to the door in the other room. He heaved a big sigh. Now hefelt safe!
　　'Anne, turn up the rugs and see if any papers are hidden there,' he said. 'Then look under the chair-cushions and strip the bed to see if anything is hidden under the mattress.'
　　Anne set to work, and Julian began to hunt too. He started on the chest of drawers, which he thoughtwould be a very likely place to hide things in. The children's hands were shaking, as they felt hereand there for the lost papers. It was so terribly exciting.
　　They wondered where the two men were. Down in the warm kitchen, perhaps. It was cold up here inthe bedrooms, and they would not want to be away from the warmth. They could not go out becausethe snow was piled in great drifts round Kirrin Farmhouse!
　　Dick and George were searching hard in the other room. They looked in every drawer. They strippedthe bed. They turned up rugs and carpet. They even put their hands up the big chimney-place!
　　'Julian? Have you found anything?' asked Dick in a low voice, appearing at the door between the tworooms.
　　'Not a thing,' said Julian, rather gloomily. They've hidden the papers well! I only hope they haven'tgot them on them - in their pockets, or something!'
　　Dick stared at him in dismay. He hadn't thought of that. 'That would be sickening!' he said.
　　'You go back and hunt everywhere - simply everywhere I' ordered Julian. 'Punch the pillows to see ifthey've stuck them under the pillow-case!'
　　Dick disappeared. Rather a lot of noise came from his room. It sounded as if he were doing a gooddeal of punching!
　　Anne and Julian went on hunting too. There was simply nowhere that they did not look. They eventurned the pictures round to see if the papers had been stuck behind one of them. But there wasnothing to be found. It was bitterly disappointing.
　　84
　　'We can't go without finding them,' said Julian, in desperation. 'It was such a bit of luck to get herelike this, down the Secret Way - right into the bedrooms! We simply must find those papers!'
　　'I say,' said Dick, appearing again, 'I can hear voices! Listen!'
　　All four children listened. Yes - there were men's voices - just outside the bedroom doors!
15.密道探险
　　密道探险
　　乔治跳下来时，蒂米已经跳进洞里，它跑在孩子们面前，对他们想要探索这样一个寒冷、黑暗的地方感到困惑。朱利安和迪克都有手电筒，两支手电筒在他们面前投射出宽阔的光束。
　　其实下面没有什么稀奇的东西。这栋老房子下面的密道又狭窄又低矮，孩子们只能一个一个地进入，而且还得蜷起身子。当通道变得稍宽一点、稍高一点时，他们觉得身体得到了极大的解放，一路弯着腰走来真的很累。
　　“你知道密道一直通往什么地方吗？”迪克问朱利安，“我的意思是——它是通向大海还是远离大海？”
　　“哦，不是通向大海的！”朱利安答道，他的方向感很好，“据我观察，这个通道是通向公共用地的。你们看这些墙壁，有些地方有很多沙子，我们知道公共用地那边是沙质土壤。我希望我们不要在密道内遇到塌方。”
　　他们一直在前进，虽然偶尔会遇到一些岩石，但只需绕过去即可，总体来说这条密道还是很直的。
　　“你们不觉得又黑又冷吗，”安妮颤抖着说，“要是我穿着外套就好了。我们走了多少英里了，朱利安？”
　　“连一英里都没有呢！”朱利安说，“你们看，通道前面有点坍塌！”
　　两支手电筒发出明亮的光束，照射在他们面前。孩子们看到沙质的顶部已经塌下来了，朱利安用脚踢平了那堆沙土。
　　“小问题，”他说，“我们可以轻松地通过，这不是塌方，主要是沙土堆积，我可以将它们踢平！”
　　经过一番又踢又踩之后，坠落的沙土不再挡路，现在沙土堆上面有足够的空间可以让孩子们爬过去，只要孩子们尽力低头弯腰，避免撞到通道顶部即可。朱利安用手电筒向前照射了一下，发现前面的道路非常开阔。
　　“这里的密道非常宽阔，就好像一个小房间！”朱利安颇感意外地说道，并晃了晃手电筒好让其他人看清楚。
　　乔治说：“现在已经到了比较开阔的地带，看，后面还有岩石制成的长凳，我想那应该是供人们休息的地方。”
　　乔治的分析是对的。在狭窄的通道里爬行这么长时间的确非常累，而安装有岩石长凳的开阔地带就是非常好的休息场所。四个疲惫的孩子冻得瑟瑟发抖，却又很兴奋，他们在这个古怪的长椅上挤成一团，愉快地休息着。蒂米把头放在乔治的膝盖上，它很高兴再次和她在一起。
　　“好了，咱们走吧，”几分钟后，朱利安说，“我现在感觉可真冷啊，真想搞清楚这密道的出口在哪里。”
　　“朱利安，你觉得出口会不会在科林农场？”乔治突然问，“你还记得桑德斯太太说的话吗？她说科林农场的某个地方有一条秘密通道。哦，可能就是这条密道，它从科林农场通向科林庄园！”
　　“乔治，我认为你说得没错！”朱利安说，“是这样的——很多年前这两栋房子都属于你们家族！过去，人们经常用秘密的通道连接房屋，所以很明显，这条密道将这两栋房子连在了一起！为什么我以前没有想到？”
　　“嘿！”安妮高声兴奋地说，“我说！我也想到了一件事！”
　　“什么？”大家都问。
　　“好吧，如果那两位画家拿到了昆廷叔叔的书稿，不管他们是想通过邮寄的方式将书稿转移，还是把书稿随身带走，我们都可以赶在前面，拿回书稿！”安妮的声音有些哆哆嗦嗦，但她很高兴把自己的想法说出来。“因为暴风雪，他们就会被困在农场里，就像我们被困在庄园里一样。”
　　“安妮！你说得对！”朱利安说。
　　“聪明的女孩！”迪克说。
　　“我说，如果我们能再拿回那些书稿就太棒了！”乔治喊道。蒂米也被大家的兴奋之情所感染，高兴地跳起来。孩子们开心，它也跟着变得非常高兴！
　　“来吧！”朱利安拉过安妮的手说，“太激动了，如果乔治是对的，这个密道会通向科林农场的某个地方，那我们就能悄悄地去这两个男人的房间里，把书稿找出来。”
　　“可你说搜查别人的房间是一件不合适的事情。”乔治说。
　　“我是说过，但是我现在不这么认为了，”朱利安说，“我们现在这样做是为了昆廷叔叔，甚至是为了我们的国家——如果昆廷叔叔的秘方价值连城。我们必须去努力，想办法战胜狡猾、危险的敌人。”
　　“你真的认为他们危险吗？”安妮非常害怕地问道。
　　“是的，我想的确如此，”朱利安说，“但你不必担心，安妮，我、迪克和蒂米都会保护你的。”
　　“我也可以保护她，”乔治有些生气地说，“我不比男孩差！”
　　“是的，是的，”迪克说，“事实上，你比我认识的所有男孩都厉害！”
　　“好了，好了，”朱利安有些焦急地说，“我想快点走到密道的尽头。”
　　孩子们继续前进，安妮跟在朱利安身边，迪克跟在乔治身后，蒂米则来来回回地跑着，在孩子们之间挤来挤去。以这样一种非常奇特的方式度过早晨，实在太有趣了！
　　他们走了很久之后，朱利安突然停了下来。“怎么了？”迪克在后面问道，“我可不希望再遇上洞顶坍塌！”
　　“不是洞顶坍塌，我想我们已经走到密道的尽头了！”朱利安激动地说。其他人都尽力挤到朱利安身边。这段密道已经到头了。在他们面前有一堵石墙，石墙上牢固地固定着一些U型铁钉——用来作为攀爬石墙时的落足点。朱利安转动手电筒，看到石墙一直向上延伸，孩子们看到通道顶部有一个方形的开口。
　　“我们现在得爬上这堵石墙，”朱利安说，“穿过那个黑色的洞口，然后再继续攀登，天哪，真不知道我们会从哪儿出去！我先上去试一下，你们在这儿等着，等我回来告诉你们那头是什么情况。”
　　朱利安用牙咬着手电筒，用手拉紧石墙上的U型铁钉，好让身体绷直，然后他用脚踩着那些U型铁钉——如此手脚并用，爬到了方形的洞口那里。
　　他向上爬了很久，感觉就像攀爬烟囱一样，很冷，还闻到了一股霉味。
　　突然，他发现自己到了一个小平台上，他取下手电筒，照了照周围。
　　他身后和身体两侧各有一堵石墙，头上还有一块石头。他此前穿过的那个黑乎乎的洞口，此刻依旧在他的脚下张着大口。朱利安在前面用手电筒扫了一圈，一阵惊喜袭来。
　　面前已经没有石墙了，而是一扇用黑橡木制成的大木门。一个门把手设置在与腰齐高的地方，朱利安用颤抖的手指转动了一下门把手。他会看到什么呢？
　　门从平台那个方向向外打开，很难越过去——很有可能会掉进洞里。朱利安努力将门开得更大一些，紧紧贴着门挤了进去——庆幸没有踩空掉下去。跨过门后，他以为自己会进入一个房间里。但他的手却摸到了很多木头！他用手电筒在周围扫了一圈，发现自己正面对着另一扇门。他用手指四下摸索，突然木门向旁边移动着，门静静地滑开了！
　　这下，朱利安知道自己在什么地方了：“我在科林农场的那个柜子里——那个木板后面有机关的柜子！密道出口就在柜子的后面！
　　多神奇啊！当我们在这个柜子里玩耍的时候，我们只知道它有一个可以滑动的背板，却不知道它后面隐藏着密道的入口！”
　　柜子里现在装满了画家的衣服。朱利安站起来仔细地听着，房间里没有任何声音。他在想，是否应该在房间里快速翻看一下，看看丢失的书稿是不是在这儿？
　　然后他想起了侦探团的小伙伴们，在这么寒冷的时候他们还在耐心地等着他去呢。他觉得自己最好先回去告诉他们这里的具体情况，然后大家可以一起上来搜查。
　　他走回那块滑动的背板后面的空间，然后将背板接回原来的位置，朱利安站在狭窄的小平台上，老橡木门向一侧敞开着。他没有碰那扇门，然后他用脚摸索着，踩到通道里的U型铁钉上。他手脚并用，紧紧贴着石墙，牙齿咬紧手电筒慢慢爬了下去。
　　“朱利安！你怎么那么久！快点告诉我们你都看到了些什么！”乔治喊。
　　“实在令人激动，”朱利安说，“绝对！超级兴奋！你们知道这个密道通往哪里吗？通往科林农场的柜子，那个有活动背板的柜子！”
　　“天哪！”迪克说。
　　“哎呀！”乔治说。
　　“你有没有进入房间呢？”安妮叫道。
　　“我一直爬到了顶端，那里有一扇橡木门，”朱利安说，“门边有一个把手，我就把它打开了。然后我面前出现了另一扇木门，至少，当时我认为那是一扇门，并不知道那是那个柜子的机关——一块能活动的背板。它很容易滑开，然后我就穿了过去，之后我就发现自己置身于一堆衣服之中——柜子里挂着的一堆衣服中！之后我就赶快爬下来告诉你们了。”
　　“朱利安！我们现在可以去找一找那些书稿，”乔治急切地说，“房间里有人吗？”
　　“我什么声音都没听到，”朱利安说，“我也建议我们现在去找一下，我们都可以上去，就在那两个房间里搜寻，除了有柜子的那间，隔壁那间也是他们的房间。”
　　“哦，太棒了！”迪克想到这样的冒险很激动，“我们现在出发吧，朱利安，你带路，安妮跟上，然后是乔治，我殿后。”
　　“那蒂米呢？”乔治问。
　　“它不会爬墙，傻瓜，”朱利安说，“它是一只很厉害的狗，但它肯定没法爬上去啊，乔治，我们得把它留在这里。”
　　“它不会愿意的。”乔治说。
　　“好吧，但我们也不能把它抱起来啊，”迪克说，“你不会介意在这里待一会儿的，是吗，蒂米？”
　　蒂米摇了摇尾巴，似乎没有什么不满。但是，当它看到孩子们神秘地消失在石墙上方时，它立刻耷拉下了大尾巴：什么！为什么不带我？他们怎么可以不带我？
　　蒂米跳到墙上，然后掉了下来，它再次尝试着跳了起来，呜呜叫着。乔治用低沉的声音向它喊道：“安静点，蒂米！我们很快就回来。”
　　蒂米停止了抱怨，它趴在墙壁底部，竖着机警的耳朵。这次冒险越来越惊险了！
　　很快，孩子们就到了那个狭窄的平台上。那扇旧橡木门仍然敞开着，朱利安拿着手电筒照了过去，其他人都看到了那个柜子的活动背板。朱利安用手将活动背板推了一下，背板就静静地滑向一侧，手电筒发出的光亮落在那些外套和衣服上！孩子们静静地站着，仔细听着——房间里没有声音。
　　“打开柜门，先观察一下房间，”朱利安悄声说，“别出声！”他在一大堆衣服中摸索着柜门，轻轻推了推。柜子的门打开了一点，一缕阳光照进柜子，他小心翼翼地走进房间。
　　房间里没有人，正好！“出来吧！”他对其他人低声说，“没有人。”
　　孩子们一个接一个地从柜子里爬出来，进入了房间，房里有一张大床、一个洗手台、一个五斗柜、一张小桌子和两把椅子。除此之外，没有其他东西。这样看来要搜索整个房间是很容易的。
　　“看，朱利安，两个房间之间有一扇门，”乔治突然说，“我们可以分头行动，两两分组。我们可以锁上门，这样就没有人能进来抓我们了！”
　　“好主意！”朱利安说道，他正担心有人可能随时会进来，将正在搜寻的他们抓住呢。“我和安妮去隔壁房间，你和迪克搜这个房间。迪克，锁上房门，另一个房间的门我也会锁上。我们把两个房间之间的连接门打开，这样我们可以相互之间小声地说话。朱利安说着悄悄穿过连接门进入隔壁房间，这里的家具摆设和第一个房间很像，也没有人。朱利安走到房门口，把门反锁了，他听到迪克也在隔壁房间把门反锁了，于是松了口气。现在他觉得安全了！”
　　“安妮，把地毯翻过来，看看书稿有没有藏在那里，”朱利安说，“还有椅子坐垫、床垫下面，都找一下。”
　　安妮开始行动起来。朱利安也开始搜寻了，他先从五斗柜开始，因为他认为这是一个容易藏匿东西的地方。孩子们就这样翻箱倒柜地搜寻丢失的书稿，简直太令人激动了，以至他们的双手都有些颤抖。
　　他们很好奇这两个画家去了哪里，也许去了温暖的厨房里。卧室里这么冷，他们可能想去取暖。反正科林农场的积雪那么厚，他们是无法出去的。
　　迪克和乔治正在隔壁房间里努力搜寻，每个抽屉都不放过，几乎把床翻了个底儿朝天，地毯、垫子全都掀了起来，连壁炉都摸索了一遍！
　　“朱利安？你找到了吗？”迪克站在连接两个房间的门旁边低声问。
　　“没有，”朱利安沮丧地说，“他们狡猾极了，把那些书稿藏起来了！我只希望他们没有把那些书稿随身带走——比如放在口袋里，或者身上其他什么地方！”
　　迪克沮丧地看着朱利安。他没有想到这一点。“太可恶了！”他说道。
　　“你继续回去到处找找，每个地方都不要放过，”朱利安对迪克说，“把枕头打开，看看是不是藏在枕套下面！”
　　迪克从朱利安面前消失了。只听迪克所在的房间里传来翻箱倒柜的噪声，听起来就像有人在打拳击一样！
　　安妮和朱利安也继续搜寻着，他们没有放过任何地方，甚至把照片取出来看看那些书稿是不是被卡在其中一张的后面。不过，他们还是一无所获，太令人失望了。
　　“找不到的话我们不能走，”朱利安绝望地说，“沿着密道竟然走进这间卧室，这太幸运了！我们必须找到那些书稿！”
　　“嘿，”迪克再次出现，并说道，“我听到有声音，听！”
　　四个孩子都听到了，是的，有男性的声音，就在卧室门外！
Chapter Sixteen THE CHILDREN ARE DISCOVERED
Chapter Sixteen THE CHILDREN ARE DISCOVERED
　　'WHAT shall we do?' whispered George. They had all tiptoed to the first room, and were standingtogether, listening.
　　'We'd better go down the Secret Way again,' said Julian.
　　'Oh no, we ...' began George, when she heard the handle of the door being turned. Whoever wastrying to get in, could not open the door. There was an angry exclamation, and then the childrenheard Mr. Wilton's voice. "Thomas! My door seems to have stuck. Do you mind if I come throughyour bedroom and see what's the matter with this handle?'
　　'Come right along!' came the voice of Mr. Thomas. There was the sound of footsteps going to theouter door of the second room. Then there was the noise of a handle being turned and shaken.
　　'What's this!' said Mr. Wilton, in exasperation. 'This won't open, either. Can the doors be locked?'
　　'It looks like it!' said Mr. Thomas.
　　There was a pause. Then the children distinctly heard a few words uttered in a low voice. 'Are thepapers safe? Is anyone after them?'
　　'They're in your room, aren't they?' said Mr. Thomas. There was another pause. The children lookedat one another. So the men had got the papers - and what was more, they were in the room! The veryroom the children stood in! They looked round it eagerly, racking their brains to think of some placethey had not yet explored.
　　'Quick! Hunt round again whilst we've time,’ whispered Julian. 'Don't make a noise.'
　　On tiptoe the children began a thorough hunt once more. How they searched! They even opened thepages of the books on the table, thinking that the papers might have been slipped in there. But theycould find nothing.
　　85
　　'Hi, Mrs. Sanders!' came Mr. Wilton's voice. 'Have you by any chance locked these two doors?
　　We can't get in!'
　　'Dear me!' said the voice of Mrs. Sanders from the stairs. 'I'll come along and see. I certainly haven'tlocked any doors!'
　　Once again the handles were turned, but the doors would not open. The men began to get veryimpatient.
　　'Do you suppose anyone is in our rooms?' Mr. Wilton asked Mrs. Sanders.
　　She laughed.
　　'Well now, sir, who would be in your rooms? There's only me and Mr. Sanders in the house, and youknow as well as I do that no one can come in from outside, for we're quite snowed up. I don'tunderstand it - the locks of the doors must have slipped.'
　　Anne was lifting up the wash-stand jug to look underneath, at that moment. It was heavier than shethought, and she had to let it down again suddenly. It struck the marble wash-stand with a crash, andwater slopped out all over the place!
　　Everyone outside the door heard the noise. Mr. Wilton banged on the door and rattled the handle.
　　'Who's there? Let us in or you'll be sorry! What are you doing in there?'
　　'Idiot, Anne!' said Dick. 'Now they'll break the door down!'
　　That was exactly what the two men intended to do! Afraid that someone was mysteriously in theirroom, trying to find the stolen papers, they went quite mad, and began to put their shoulders to thedoor, and heave hard. The door shook and creaked.
　　'Now you be careful what you're doing!' cried the indignant voice of Mrs. Sanders. The men took nonotice. There came a crash as they both tried out their double strength on the door.
　　'Quick! We must go!' said Julian. 'We mustn't let the men know how we got here, or we shan't be ableto come and hunt another time. Anne, George, Dick - get back to the cupboard quickly!'
　　The children raced for the clothes cupboard. I’ll go first and help you down,' said Julian. He got outon to the narrow ledge and found the iron foot-holds with his feet. Down he went, torch held betweenhis teeth as usual.
　　'Anne, come next,' he called, 'And Dick, you come third, and give a hand to Anne if she wants it.
　　George is a good climber - she can easily get down herself.'
　　Anne was slow at climbing down. She was terribly excited, rather frightened, and so afraid of fallingthat she hardly dared to feel for each iron staple as she went down.
　　86
　　'Buck up, Anne!' whispered Dick, above her. 'The men have almost got the door down!'
　　There were tremendous sounds coming from the bedroom door. At any moment now it might breakdown, and the men would come racing in. Dick was thankful when he could begin to climb down thewall! Once they were all out, George could shut the big oak door, and they would be safe.
　　George was hidden among the clothes in the cupboard, waiting her turn to climb down. As she stoodthere, trying in vain to go over any likely hiding-place in her mind, her hands felt something rustly inthe pocket of a coat, she was standing against. It was a mackintosh coat, with big pockets. The littlegirl's heart gave a leap.
　　Suppose the papers had been left in the pocket of the coat the man had on when he took them fromMr. Roland? That was the only place the children had not searched - the pockets of the coats in thecupboard! With trembling fingers the girl felt in the pocket where the rustling was.
　　She drew out a sheaf of papers. It was dark in the cupboard, and she could not see if they were theones she was hunting for, or not - but how she hoped they were! She stuffed them up the front of herjersey, for she had no big pocket, and whispered to Dick:
　　'Can I come now?'
　　CRASH! The door fell in with a terrific noise, and the two men leapt into the room. They lookedround. It was empty! But there was the water spilt on the wash-stand and on the floor. Someone mustbe there somewhere!
　　'Look in the cupboard!' said Mr. Thomas.
　　George crept out of the clothes and on to the narrow ledge, beyond the place where the false back ofthe cupboard used to be. It was still hidden sideways in the wall. The girl climbed down the hole afew steps and then shut the oak door which was now above her head. She had not enough strength toclose it completely, but she hoped that now she was safe!
　　The men went to the cupboard and felt about in the clothes for anyone who might possibly be hidingthere. Mr. Wilton gave a loud cry.
　　'The papers are gone! They were in this pocket! There's not a sign of them. Quick, Thomas, we mustfind the thief and get them back!'
　　The men did not notice that the cupboard seemed to go farther back than usual. They stepped awayfrom it now that they were sure no one was there, and began to hunt round the room.
　　87
　　By now all the children except George were at the bottom of the hole, standing in the Secret Way,waiting impatiently for George to come down. Poor George was in such a hurry to get down that shecaught her skirt on one of the staples, and had to stand in a very dangerous position trying todisentangle it.
　　'Come on, George, for goodness sake!' said Julian.
　　Timothy jumped up at the wall. He could feel the fear and excitement of the waiting children, and itupset him. He wanted George. Why didn't she come? Why was she up that dark hole? Tim wasunhappy about her.
　　He threw back his head and gave such a loud and mournful howl that all the children jumpedviolently.
　　'Shut up, Tim!' said Julian.
　　Tim howled again, and the weird sound echoed round and about in a queer manner. Anne wasterrified, and she began to cry. Timothy howled again and again. Once he began to howl it wasdifficult to stop him.
　　The men in the bedroom above heard the extraordinary noise, and stopped in amazement.
　　'Whatever's that ?' said one.
　　'Sounds like a dog howling in the depths of the earth,’ said the other.
　　Funny!' said Mr. Wilton. 'It seems to be coming from the direction of that cupboard.'
　　He went over to it and opened the door. Tim chose that moment to give a specially mournful howl,and Mr. Wilton jumped. He got into the cupboard and felt about at the back. The oak door there gaveway beneath his hand, and he felt it open.
　　'Thomas! There's something queer here,' called Mr. Wilton. 'Bring my torch off the table.'
　　Tim howled again and the noise made Mr. Wilton shiver! Tim had a peculiarly horrible howl. It cameechoing up the hole, and burst out into the cupboard.
　　Mr. Thomas got the torch. The men shone it at the back of the cupboard, and gave an exclamation.
　　'Look at that! There's a door here! Where does it lead to?'
　　Mrs. Sanders, who had been watching everything in surprise and indignation, angry that her doorshould have been broken down, came up to the cupboard.
　　88
　　'My!' she said. 'I knew there was a false back to that cupboard - but I didn't know there was anotherdoor behind it too! That must be the entrance to the Secret Way that people used in the old days.'
　　'Where does it lead to?' rapped out Mr. Wilton.
　　'Goodness knows!' said Mrs. Sanders. 'I never took much interest in such things.'
　　'Come on, Thomas - we must go down,' said Mr. Wilton, shining his torch into the square black hole,and seeing the iron foot-holds set in the stone. 'This is where the thief went. He can't have got far.
　　We'll go after him. We've got to get those papers back!'
　　It was not long before the two men had swung themselves over the narrow ledge and down into thehole, feeling with their feet for the iron staples. Down they went and down, wondering where theywere coming to. There was no sound below them. Clearly the thief had got away!
　　George had got down at last. Tim almost knocked her over in his joy. She put her hand on his head.
　　'You old silly!' she said. 'I believe you've given our secret away! Quick, Ju - we must go, becausethose men will be after us in a minute. They could easily hear Tim's howling!'
　　Julian took Anne's hand. 'Come along, Anne,' he said. 'You must run as fast as you can. Hurry now!
　　Dick, keep with George.'
　　The four of them hurried down the dark, narrow passage. What a long way they had to go home!
　　If only the passage wasn't such a long one! The children's hearts were beating painfully as they madehaste, stumbling as they went.
　　Julian shone his light steadily in front of him, and Dick shone his at the back. Half-leading half-dragging Anne, Julian hurried along. Behind them they heard a shout.
　　'Look! There's a light ahead! That's the thief! Come on, we'll soon get him!'
16.千钧一发
　　千钧一发
　　“我们该怎么办？”乔治低声说道。他们踮着脚尖回到第一个房间，站在一起，听着动静。
　　“我们最好再次沿着密道下去。”朱利安说。
　　“哦，不，我们……”乔治听到门把手转动的声音。有人试图进入房间，不过门是打不开的。一个愤怒的声音传来：“托马斯！我的门似乎卡住了。你介意我穿过到你的卧室看看这个门把手有什么问题吗？”孩子们听出来是威尔顿先生的声音。
　　“快过来吧！”托马斯先生的声音传来。第二个房间门外响起了脚步声。然后孩子们听到了门把手被转动和摇晃的声音。
　　“怎么回事！”威尔顿先生愤怒地说，“这个门也打不开，门被锁上了吗？”
　　“好像是！”托马斯先生说。
　　紧接着安静了一会儿，然后孩子们清楚地听到了他们低声交谈的声音。“那些书稿安全吗？有人寻找它们吗？”
　　“它们在你的房间里，不是吗？”托马斯先生说。声音又停顿了一会儿。
　　孩子们互相看着对方——所以这两个人拿到了书稿，更重要的是，书稿就在这个房间里！孩子们站在原地，急切地环顾四周，绞尽脑汁地想他们还没有搜寻过哪些地方。
　　“快！我们还有时间，再找找，别出声！”朱利安低声嘱咐。
　　孩子们蹑手蹑脚，开始第二轮搜查。如何搜查呢？他们甚至打开桌子上的书，以为书稿可能夹在里面，不过，他们还是一无所获。
　　“嘿，桑德斯太太！”威尔顿先生的声音传来，“是你锁上这两扇门了吗？我们进不去！”
　　“哦，亲爱的威尔顿先生！”从楼梯上传来桑德斯太太的声音，“让我来看看，我没有锁门啊！”
　　门把手再次转动，门还是打不开，威尔顿先生开始变得非常不耐烦。
　　“是不是有人进了我们的房间？”威尔顿先生问桑德斯太太。
　　桑德斯太太笑了：“哈哈，先生，谁会在你的房间呢？家里只有我和我先生，而且你也知道现在有暴风雪，不可能有人从外面进来。我也不明白这是怎么回事——想必是门锁滑了。”
　　此时，安妮正抬起洗手台上的水壶往下面看，可它比她想象的要重，她不得不赶紧放下，却“砰”的一声撞到了大理石洗手台，水洒了一地！
　　门外的人都听到了声音。威尔顿先生开始撞门、转动把手。“谁在里面？快开门，不然就让你好看！你在干什么？”
　　“安妮！”迪克说，“现在他会撞破门的！”
　　那两个人正是这么打算的！他们害怕有人鬼鬼祟祟地待在他们的房间里，试图找到被窃取的书稿，他们发疯似的用肩膀撞门，门开始吱吱作响。
　　“你们小心点！”桑德斯太太愤怒地喊。那两人根本没有注意桑德斯太太说什么，他们更加使劲地撞门。
　　“快！我们必须赶紧走！”朱利安说，“不能让这些人知道我们是怎么来的，否则我们就再也不能来找书稿了。安妮、乔治、迪克——快回到柜子里！”
　　孩子们跑到柜子那里。“我先下去，然后再帮你们。”朱利安说道。他先跨到那个狭窄的平台上，然后踩着大铁钉爬了下去。在他往下爬时，他像往常一样把手电筒咬在嘴里。
　　“安妮，下来，”他喊道，“迪克，你排第三个，如果安妮有需要，你可以帮安妮一把。乔治是个优秀的攀登者，她可以轻而易举地自己爬下去。”
　　安妮爬得很慢，她非常激动，也非常害怕，总担心会摔下去，以至在往下爬时，她几乎不敢去碰那些大铁钉。
　　“振作点，安妮！”迪克低声说道，“那个男人几乎要把门打开了！”
　　卧室门再次传来巨大的声音，门似乎随时都会被撞开，而那两个人就会追上来。往下爬时，迪克觉得庆幸不已！只要他们全部出来，乔治就可以关上橡木门，他们就安全了。
　　乔治藏在柜子里的那堆衣服中，等着轮到她爬下来。当时她就站在那里，试图再找找任何可能藏匿书稿的地方。她身旁有一件外套，她的手就在那件外套的口袋里乱翻着，突然她感觉到自己似乎摸到了什么东西。这是一件带有大口袋的长外套，乔治的心怦怦直跳。
　　那个人从罗兰德先生手中拿走这些书稿后，将这些书稿放在了这件外套的口袋里？有没有这种可能呢？这儿是孩子们唯一没有搜索过的地方——柜子里书稿的口袋！
　　乔治用颤抖的手指在口袋里摸索着。她抽出了一叠文件，柜子里很黑，她看不清那是不是她要找的书稿，但她多么希望那就是啊！乔治把它们塞进了自己的衣服里，因为她没有大口袋。然后，她低声问迪克：“我现在可以下来了吗？”
　　门“砰”的一声被撞开了！两个男人跳进房间。他们环顾四周——什么都没有！但是洗手台和地板上溅满了水。一定是有人！
　　“看看柜子！”托马斯先生说。
　　乔治从衣服里悄悄地爬到狭窄的平台上，越过了柜子后面的那块背板——它仍然隐藏在墙边。乔治往下爬了几步，关上了头部上方的橡木门。她的力量不足以完全关闭它，但她希望现在是安全的！
　　两个男人走到柜子旁边，伸手摸索看是否有人藏在衣服里。威尔顿先生大声喊道：“书稿不见了！它们本来是在这个口袋里的！可是现在没有了。快，托马斯，我们必须去追上小偷，把书稿拿回来！”
　　他们没有注意到柜子的背板似乎比往常更深。他们走开了，因为他们确信柜子里没有人，于是他们便开始在房间里搜索。
　　到现在为止，除了乔治之外的所有孩子都已经在洞底了。他们站在密道中，焦急地等着乔治下来。可怜的乔治却在匆忙中被钉子勾住了衣服，此刻她不得不站在一个非常危险的地方设法将衣服解开。
　　“加油，乔治！”朱利安说。
　　蒂米不断往墙上跳，它可以感受到孩子们等待时的恐惧和激动，这让它心烦意乱。它想要见乔治。她为什么不来？她为什么要站在那个黑洞上？蒂米很不高兴。
　　蒂米甩了甩头，发出了一声响亮而悲伤的号叫，所有的孩子都猛地跳了起来。
　　“闭嘴，蒂米！”朱利安说。
　　蒂米再次号叫，怪异的声音在空气中回荡着。安妮吓坏了，她开始哭了起来。蒂米不断地号叫，一旦它开始号叫，就很难阻止它。
　　卧室里的人听到了异常的声音，惊讶地停了下来。
　　“那是什么声音？”一个人问道。
　　“听起来像是有只狗在地下深处号叫，”威尔顿先生说，“似乎来自那个柜子的方向。”
　　他刚走过去打开柜门，蒂米恰巧在那一刻发出一声特别悲伤的号叫，威尔顿先生跳了起来。他走进柜子，在背板上摸索着，那里的橡木门就在他手下滑开了，他感到那扇门打开了。
　　“托马斯！这里有机关，”威尔顿先生说，“把我的手电筒从桌子上拿过来。”
　　蒂米再次叫了起来，吓得威尔顿先生颤抖不止！蒂米的号叫声听起来很可怕——那声音响彻洞口，直冲进柜子。
　　托马斯先生拿到了手电筒。他们在柜子后面照了一下，发出了一声惊呼：“看！这里有一扇门！它通向哪里？”
　　桑德斯太太一直惊讶而愤怒地看着一切，她很生气——她的门本不应该被撞破的，她朝柜子那里走了过去。
　　“我的天！我知道柜子里有一个机关夹层，但我不知道它后面还有另一扇门！那一定是人们过去使用的密道的入口。”
　　“这会通向哪里？”威尔顿先生说。
　　“谁知道！”桑德斯太太说，“我对这些事情从来不感兴趣。”
　　“来吧，托马斯，我们去追，”威尔顿先生一边说，一边用手电筒照了照方形的黑洞，然后他看到了石头上嵌着的铁钉制成的落足点，“小偷就是从这儿走的，他不可能走远，我们快追，必须把那些书稿拿回来！”
　　没过多久，这两个人已经从狭窄的台子上晃晃悠悠地钻进了洞中，脚下摸索着铁钉往下爬去，他们很想知道“小偷”会去哪里。下面没有声音，很明显“小偷”已经离开了！
　　乔治终于下来了，蒂米高兴地几乎把她压倒在地，她把手放在蒂米头上。“你傻啊，蒂米！”她说道，“你已经把我们暴露了！快，朱利安，我们必须赶紧离开，那些人马上就追来了。他们很容易听到蒂米的叫声！”
　　朱利安握住安妮的手。“走吧，安妮，”他说道，“你必须尽可能地快跑。快！迪克，你跟乔治一起。”
　　侦探团的小伙伴们沿着黑暗狭窄的通道匆匆跑去。回家的路太长了！如果通道没那么长该多好！孩子们的心怦怦直跳，脚步也因此磕磕绊绊。
　　朱利安在最前面，用手电筒稳稳地照着前方。迪克在后面跟着亮光走着，半扶半拖着安妮。朱利安不停地催促着。这时，他们听到身后传来一声喊叫。
　　“看！前面有光！是小偷！快，很快就追上了！”
Chapter Seventeen GOOD OLD TIM!
Chapter Seventeen GOOD OLD TIM!
　　'HURRY, Anne, do hurry!' shouted Dick, who was just behind.
　　Poor Anne was finding it very difficult to get along quickly. Pulled by Julian and pushed by Dick, shealmost fell two or three times. Her breath came in loud pants, and she felt as if she would burst.
　　89
　　'Let me have a rest!' she panted. But there was no time for that, with the two men hurrying afterthem! They came to the piece that was widened out, where the rocky bench was, and Anne lookedlongingly at it. But the boys hurried her on.
　　Suddenly the little girl caught her foot on a stone and fell heavily, almost dragging Julian down withher. She tried to get up, and began to cry.
　　'I've hurt my foot! I've twisted it! Oh, Julian, it hurts me to walk.'
　　'Well, you've just got to come along, darling,' said Julian, sorry for his little sister, but knowing thatthey would all be caught if he was not firm. 'Hurry as much as you can.'
　　But now it was impossible for Anne to go fast. She cried with pain as her foot hurt her, and hobbledalong so slowly that Dick almost fell over her. Dick cast a look behind him and saw the light of themen's torches coming nearer and nearer. Whatever were they to do?
　　'I'll stay here with Tim and keep them off,' said George, suddenly. 'Here, take these papers, Dick!
　　I believe they're the ones we want, but I'm not sure till we get a good light to see them. I found themin a pocket of one of the coats in the cupboard.'
　　'Golly!' said Dick, surprised. He took the sheaf of papers and stuffed them up his jersey, just asGeorge had stuffed them up hers. They were too big to go into his trousers pockets. 'I'll stay with you,George, and let the other two go on ahead.'
　　'No. I want the papers taken to safety, in case they are my father's,' said George. 'Go on, Dick! I'll beall right here with Tim. I shall stay here just where the passage curves round this rocky bit. I'll makeTim bark like mad.'
　　'Suppose the men have got revolvers?' said Dick, doubtfully. 'They might shoot him.'
　　'I bet they haven't,' said George. 'Do go, Dick! The men are almost here. There's the light of theirtorch.'
　　Dick sped after the stumbling Anne. He told Julian what George had suggested. 'Good for George!'
　　said Julian. 'She really is marvellous - not afraid of anything! She will keep the men off till I get poorold Anne back.'
　　George was crouching behind the rocky bit, her hand on Tim's collar, waiting. 'Now, Tim!' shewhispered. 'Bark your loudest. Now!'
　　Timothy had been growling up till now, but at George's command he opened his big mouth andbarked. How he barked! He had a simply enormous voice, and the barks went echoing all down 90the dark and narrow passage. The hurrying men, who were near the rocky piece of the passage,stopped.
　　'If you come round this bend, I'll set my dog on you!' cried George.
　　'It's a child shouting,' said one man to another. 'Only a child! Come on!'
　　Timothy barked again, and pulled at his collar, He was longing to get at the men. The light of theirtorch shone round the bend. George let Tim go, and the big dog sprang joyfully round the curve tomeet his enemies.
　　They suddenly saw him by the light of their torch, and he was a very terrifying sight! To begin with,he was a big dog, and now that he was angry all the hairs on the back of his neck had risen up,making him look even more enormous. His teeth were bared and glinted in the torch-light.
　　The men did not like the look of him at all. 'If you move one step nearer I'll tell my dog to fly at you!'
　　shouted George. 'Wait, Tim, wait! Stand there till I give the word.'
　　The dog stood in the light of the torch, growling deeply. He looked an extremely fierce animal.
　　The men looked at him doubtfully. One man took a step forward and George heard him. At once sheshouted to Tim.
　　'Go for him, Tim, go for him!'
　　Tim leapt at the man's throat. He took him completely by surprise and the man fell to the ground witha thud, trying to beat off the dog. The other man helped.
　　'Call off your dog or we'll hurt him!' cried the second man.
　　'It's much more likely he'll hurt you!' said George, coming out from behind the rock and enjoying thefun. 'Tim, come off.'
　　Tim came away from the man he was worrying, looking up at his mistress as if to say 'I was havingsuch a good time! Why did you spoil it?'
　　'Who are you?' said the man on the ground.
　　I'm not answering any of your questions,' said George. 'Go back to Kirrin Farmhouse, that's myadvice to you. If you dare to come along this passage I'll set my dog on to you again - and next timehe'll do a little more damage.'
　　The men turned and went back the way they had come. They neither of them wanted to face Timagain. George waited until she could no longer see the light of their torch, then she bent down andpatted Timothy.
　　91
　　'Brave, good dog!' she said. 'I love you, darling Tim, and you don't know how proud I am of you!
　　Come along - we'll hurry after the others now. I expect those two men will explore this passage sometime tonight, and won't they get a shock when they find out where it leads to, and see who is waitingfor them!'
　　George hurried along the rest of the long passage, with Tim running beside her. She had Dick's torch,and it did not take her long to catch the others up. She panted out to them what had happened, andeven poor Anne chuckled in delight when she heard how Tim had flung Mr.
　　Wilton to the ground.
　　'Here we are,' said Julian, as the passage came to a stop below the hole in the study floor, 'Hallo -what's this?'
　　A bright light was shining down the hole, and the rug and carpet, so carefully pulled over the hole byJulian, were now pulled back again. The children gazed up in surprise.
　　Uncle Quentin was there, and Aunt Fanny, and when they saw the children's faces looking up at themfrom the hole, they were so astonished that they very nearly fell down the hole too!
　　'Julian! Anne! What in the wide world are you doing down there?' cried Uncle Quentin. He gavethem each a hand up, and the four children and Timothy were at last safe in the warm study.
　　How good it was to feel warm again! They got as near the fire as they could.
　　'Children - what is the meaning of this?' asked Aunt Fanny. She looked white and worried. 'I cameinto the study to do some dusting, and when I stood on that bit of the rug, it seemed to give waybeneath me. When I pulled it up and turned back the carpet, I saw that hole - and the hole in thepanelling too! And then I found that all of you had disappeared, and went to fetch your uncle.
　　What has been happening - and where does that hole lead to?'
　　Dick took the sheaf of papers from under his jersey and gave them to George. She took them andhanded them to her father. 'Are these the missing pages?' she asked.
　　Her father fell on them as if they had been worth more than a hundred times their weight in gold.
　　'Yes! Yes! They're the pages - all three of them! Thank goodness they're back. They took me threeyears to bring to perfection, and contained the heart of my secret formula. George, where did you getthem?'
　　'It's a very long story,' said George. 'You tell it all, Julian, I feel tired.'
　　Julian began to tell the tale. He left out nothing. He told how George had found Mr. Roland snoopingabout the study - how she had felt sure that the tutor had not wanted Timmy in the 92house because the dog gave warning of his movements at night - how George had seen him talking tothe two artists, although he had said he did not know them. As the tale went on, Uncle Quentin andAunt Fanny looked more and more amazed. They simply could not believe it all.
　　But after all, there were the missing papers, safely back. That was marvellous. Uncle Quentin huggedthe papers as if they were a precious baby. He would not put them down for a moment.
　　George told the bit about Timmy keeping the men off the escaping children. 'So you see, althoughyou made poor Tim live out in the cold, away from me, he really saved us all, and your papers too,'
　　she said to her father, fixing her brilliant blue eyes on him.
　　Her father looked most uncomfortable. He felt very guilty for having punished George and Timothy.
　　They had been right about Mr. Roland and he had been wrong.
　　'Poor George,' he said, 'and poor Timmy. I'm sorry about all that.'
　　George did not bear malice once anyone had owned themselves to be in the wrong. She smiled at herfather.
　　'It's all right,' she said. 'But don't you think that as I was punished unfairly, Mr. Roland might bepunished well and truly? He deserves it!'
　　'Oh, he shall be, certainly he shall be,' promised her father. 'He's up in bed with a cold, as you know. Ihope he doesn't hear any of this, or he may try to escape.'
　　'He can't,' said George. 'We're snowed up. You could ring up the police, and arrange for them tocome here as soon as ever they can manage it, when the snow has cleared. And I rather think thoseother two men will try to explore the secret way as soon as possible, to get the papers back.
　　Could we catch them when they arrive, do you think?'
　　'Rather!' said Uncle Quentin, though Aunt Fanny looked as if she didn't want any more excitingthings to happen! 'Now look here, you seem really frozen all of you, and you must be hungry too,because it's almost dinner-time. Go into the dining-room and sit by the fire, and Joanna shall bring usall a hot lunch. Then we'll talk about what to do.'
　　Nobody said a word to Mr. Roland, of course. He lay in bed, coughing now and then. George hadslipped up and locked his door. She wasn't going to have him wandering out and overhearinganything!
　　They all enjoyed their hot dinner, and became warm and cosy. It was nice to sit there together,talking over their adventure, and planning what to do.
　　93
　　'I will telephone to the police, of course,' said Uncle Quentin. 'And tonight we will put Timmy intothe study to give the two artists a good welcome if they arrive!'
　　Mr. Roland was most annoyed to find his door locked that afternoon when he took it into his head todress and go downstairs. He banged on it indignantly. George grinned and went upstairs.
　　She had told the other children how she had locked the door.
　　'What's the matter, Mr. Roland?' she asked, in a polite voice.
　　'Oh, it's you, George, is it?' said the tutor. 'Well, see what's the matter with my door, will you? I can'topen it.'
　　George had pocketed the key when she had locked the door. She answered Mr. Roland in a cheerfulvoice.
　　'Oh Mr. Roland, there's no key in your door, so I can't unlock it. I'll see if I can find it!'
　　Mr. Roland was angry and puzzled. He couldn't understand why his door was locked and the keygone. He did not guess that everyone knew about him now. Uncle Quentin laughed when Georgewent down and told him about the locked door.
　　'He may as well be kept a prisoner,' he said. 'He can't escape now.'
　　That night, everyone went to bed early, and Timmy was left in the study, guarding the hole. Mr.
　　Roland had become more and more angry and puzzled when his door was not unlocked. He hadshouted for Uncle Quentin, but only George had come. He could not understand it. George, of course,was enjoying herself. She made Timothy bark outside Mr. Roland's door, and this puzzled him too,for he knew that George was not supposed to see Timmy for three days. Wild thoughts raced throughhis head. Had that fierce, impossible child locked up her father and mother and Joanna, as well ashimself? He could not imagine what had happened.
　　In the middle of the night Timmy awoke everyone by barking madly. Uncle Quentin and the childrenhurried downstairs, followed by Aunt Fanny, and the amazed Joanna. A fine sight met their eyes!
　　Mr. Wilton and Mr. Thomas were in the study crouching behind the sofa, terrified of Timothy, whowas barking for all he was worth! Timmy was standing by the hole in the stone floor, so that the twomen could not escape down there. Artful Timmy! He had waited in silence until the men had crept upthe hole into the study, and were exploring it, wondering where they were - and then the dog hadleapt to the hole to guard it, preventing the men from escaping.
　　94
　　'Good evening, Mr. Wilton, good evening, Mr. Thomas', said George, in a polite voice. 'Have youcome to see our tutor Mr. Roland?'
　　'So this is where he lives!' said Mr. Wilton. 'Was it you in the passage today?’
　　'Yes - and my cousins,' said George. 'Have you come to look for the papers you stole from myfather?'
　　The two men were silent. They knew they were caught. Mr. Wilton spoke after a moment.
　　'Where's Roland?'
　　'Shall we take these men to Mr. Roland, Uncle?' asked Julian, winking at George. 'Although it's in themiddle of the night I'm sure he would love to see them.'
　　'Yes,' said his uncle, jumping at once to what the boy meant to do. 'Take them up. Timmy, you gotoo.'
　　The men followed Julian upstairs, Timmy close at their heels. George followed too, grinning.
　　She handed Julian the key. He unlocked the door and the men went in, just as Julian switched on thelight. Mr. Roland was wide awake and gave an exclamation of complete amazement when he saw hisfriends.
　　Before they had time to say a word Julian locked the door again and threw the key to George.
　　'A nice little bag of prisoners,' he said. 'We will leave old Tim outside the door to guard them. It'simpossible to get out of that window, and anyway, we're snowed up if they could escape that way.'
　　Everyone went to bed again, but the children found it difficult to sleep after such an exciting time.
　　Anne and George whispered together and so did Julian and Dick. There was such a lot to talk about.
　　Next day there was a surprise for everyone. The police did arrive after all! The snow did not stopthem, for somewhere or other they had got skis and had come skimming along valiantly to see theprisoners! It was a great excitement for everyone.
　　'We won't take the men away, sir, till the snow has gone,' said the Inspector. 'We'll just put thehandcuffs on them, so that they don't try any funny tricks. You keep the door locked too, and that dogoutside. They'll be safe there for a day or two. We've taken them enough food till we come backagain. If they go a bit short, it will serve them right!'
　　The snow melted two days later, and the police took away Mr. Roland and the others. The childrenwatched them go.
　　95
　　'No more lessons these holls!' said Anne gleefully.
　　'No more shutting Timothy out of the house,' said George.
　　'You were right and we were wrong, George,' said Julian. 'You were fierce, weren't you? - but it's ajolly good thing you were!'
　　'She is fierce, isn't she?' said Dick, giving the girl a sudden hug. 'But I rather like her when she'sfierce, don't you, Julian? Oh George, we do have marvellous adventures with you! I wonder if we'llhave any more?'
　　They will - there isn't a doubt of that!
　　THE END
17.好样的，蒂米
　　好样的，蒂米
　　“快，安妮，加油！”迪克在后面喊道。可怜的安妮发现很难快速前进。朱利安帮忙拉着她，迪克推着她，她跌倒了好几次。她的呼吸声沉重，觉得自己撑不住了。
　　“让我休息会儿吧！”她气喘吁吁地说。但是没有时间了，后面还有两个坏人紧追着他们！终于，他们来到那个较空旷的地方，那里有岩石长凳，安妮眼巴巴地看着长凳。但男孩们催她赶紧走。突然，安妮被一块石头绊了一脚，重重地摔了一跤，差点把朱利安拖倒。她试着站起来，开始哭了起来。“我的脚受伤了！我的脚扭了！
　　哦，朱利安，一走路就疼。”
　　“好吧，亲爱的，你坚持一下。”朱利安说道。他对他的小妹妹感到很抱歉，但他知道如果他不坚定的话，他们都会被抓住。“赶快。”他说道。
　　但现在安妮不可能跑得很快。因为脚疼，她痛苦地哭了起来。
　　她步履蹒跚，以至迪克差点摔倒在她身上。迪克往身后看了一眼，那两个男人的手电筒发出的光亮越来越近了。怎么办？
　　“我会和蒂米待在这里，把他们赶走，”乔治突然说道，“来，拿好这些文件，迪克！我相信这就是我们想找的书稿，但我不能确定，等到安全了我们最好确认一下，这是我在柜子里一件外套的口袋里发现的。”
　　“天哪！”迪克惊讶地说，就像那会儿乔治把文件塞进她的衣服一样，迪克也把文件塞进了他的衣服里。因为文件太大了，无法装进裤兜里。“我会和你留在这儿，乔治，让他们两个先走。”他说道。
　　“不，我希望确保这些文件的安全——如果这就是我爸爸的那些书稿的话，”乔治很坚定，“继续走，迪克！我和蒂米留在这里，在通道拐弯的这块岩石处，我可以让蒂米赶走他们。”
　　“如果这些人有手枪呢？”迪克怀疑地说，“他们可能会杀死蒂米。”
　　“我打赌他们没有，”乔治说，“快走，迪克！他们快到了，手电筒的光越来越近了。”
　　迪克跟在蹒跚的安妮之后，加快了步伐。他将乔治的建议告诉了朱利安。“乔治太棒了！”朱利安说，“她真的很厉害，毫无畏惧！
　　她会赶走那些坏人的，直到我们把可怜的安妮带回去。”
　　乔治蹲在岩石后面，她的手放在蒂米身上，蓄势待发。“就是现在，蒂米！”她低声说，“大声叫，马上！”
　　蒂米一直在低声咆哮，在乔治的指挥下，这会儿它张开了大嘴，大声吠叫着！蒂米的叫声震耳欲聋，巨大的犬吠声在黑暗狭窄的密道中回荡着，走到密道长凳附近的两人匆忙停了下来。
　　“如果你们再往前一步，绕过这个弯道，我就会放狗了！”乔治大喊。
　　“这只是一个孩子的喊声，”两个男人说，“只是一个孩子而已！
　　来吧！”
　　此时蒂米再次吠叫，马上就要冲出去了，它迫不及待地要冲向坏人。那两个人的手电筒照亮了弯道。乔治放开蒂米，蒂米跳出一道漂亮的曲线迎战坏人。
　　借着手电筒的光，那两个人看到了一只大狗的身影，那是一个非常可怕的景象！首先蒂米体形巨大，而且现在它怒气冲冲，脖子后面的毛发都竖了起来，让它看起来更加庞大，闪亮的獠牙在手电筒发出的光亮中显得更加锋利逼人。
　　那两个人可不喜欢眼前的景象。“如果你们向前迈一步，我就放狗咬你们！”乔治喊道，“等等，蒂米，等等！站在那儿，等我命令。”
　　大狗站立在手电筒的光芒下，咆哮声振聋发聩，看起来是个非常凶猛的生物。那两个人面露惧色，其中一人向前迈了一步。乔治听到了他的声音，她立刻向蒂米喊道：“去，蒂米，去咬他！”
　　蒂米直扑向那个男人的喉咙。他完全惊呆了，“砰”的一声倒在地上，试图揍这只狗，另外一个人也赶来帮忙。
　　“管好你的狗，否则我们会伤到它！”第二个男人喊道。
　　“我看更有可能受伤的是你们，”乔治说着，从岩石后面出来，享受地看着一切，“蒂米，下来。”蒂米松开了他扑倒的男人，抬头看着小主人，仿佛在说：“我还没过瘾呢，你为什么叫停？”
　　“你是谁？”躺地上的那个人说。
　　“我不会回答你的任何问题，”乔治说，“快回科林农场去，这是我给你们的忠告。如果你们敢沿着这段密道继续走，我会再次把狗放出来，到时候就不会轻易放过你们了。”
　　那两人转身往回走了，他们俩都不想再次面对蒂米。乔治一直等到再也看不到他们手电筒的光亮，她弯下腰宠溺地拍了拍蒂米。
　　“勇敢善良的好狗狗！”她说道，“我爱你，亲爱的蒂米，你不知道我多么为你自豪！来吧，我们赶紧赶上大伙儿。希望这两个坏蛋今晚某个时间回到密道，当他们发现密道通向何处时，他们不仅会感到震惊，还要看看是谁在等着他们！”
　　乔治匆匆走过长长的密道，蒂米跟在她旁边。她有迪克的手电筒，很快就追上了其他人，乔治给大家讲述了发生的事情，可怜的安妮在听到蒂米把威尔顿先生扑倒在地上时笑得很开心。
　　“我们到了，”朱利安说道，因为密道在书房下的洞口处到达了尽头，“嘿，这是什么？”
　　一道明亮的灯光照射在洞口，原本被朱利安小心地放回的地毯和垫子，现在再次被拉开。孩子们惊奇地瞪大了眼睛。
　　是昆廷叔叔在那里，还有范妮婶婶，当他们看到孩子们的脸从洞里出现时，他们惊得几乎摔进洞里！
　　“朱利安！安妮！你们在那儿做什么？”昆廷叔叔喊道，他抓住每个人的手。四个孩子和蒂米终于回到了暖和的书房，再次感到温暖是多么美好啊！他们跑到壁炉边取暖。
　　“孩子们，这是怎么回事？”范妮婶婶问，她看起来脸色苍白，很是担心，“我来书房打扫卫生，踩在地毯上时，差点掉下去，我把地毯拉起来时，看到了那个洞，还有石板下的通道！我发现你们所有人都消失了，赶紧去找昆廷，到底发生了什么，这个洞通向哪里？”
　　迪克从他的衣服里拿出那叠文件，把它们交给了乔治。乔治拿给爸爸：“这些是丢失的书稿吗？”
　　昆廷叔叔拿着这些书稿如获至宝：“是！是！就是这些，丢失的书稿都在！谢天谢地找回来了。它们花了我三年时间才完成，包含了秘方的核心。乔治，你在哪里找到它们的？”
　　“这是一个很长的故事，”乔治说，“你来讲吧，朱利安，我很累。”
　　于是朱利安从头到尾讲述了这个故事。他没有任何遗漏，他提到了乔治目睹罗兰德先生窥探书房，以及她是如何确定罗兰德先生就是不想让蒂米进屋的——因为他怕蒂米在晚上发现他鬼鬼祟祟做坏事，还有乔治亲眼看到他和两位画家交谈，却说不认识他们。随着故事的继续，昆廷叔叔和范妮婶婶听得目瞪口呆，他们根本无法相信这一切。
　　但毕竟失窃的书稿安全地回来了，这真是万幸！昆廷叔叔把这些书稿抱在怀里，好像是抱着宝贝一样，舍不得放下一会儿。
　　乔治只是补充了蒂米把这两个男人吓跑，所以他们才安全回来的情节。“你看，虽然你让可怜的蒂米在天寒地冻中受苦，远离我，但它真的救了我们所有人，还有你的书稿。”乔治对她爸爸说道。她炯炯有神的蓝眼睛闪闪发光。
　　昆廷叔叔看起来很不自在，他因惩罚乔治和蒂米而感到非常内疚：“可怜的乔治，可怜的蒂米，对此我很抱歉。”孩子们对罗兰德先生的看法是对的，自己错了。
　　一旦有人承认自己的错误，乔治就会释怀了，她对爸爸微笑起来：“没关系，但你不觉得我接受了不公平的惩罚，罗兰德先生也应该得到严惩吗？他是罪有应得！”
　　“哦，他必须受到法律的制裁，”昆廷叔叔承诺，“如你所知，他感冒卧床，希望他没有听到这些，不然他可能试图逃跑。”
　　“他逃不掉，”乔治说，“我们被暴风雪困住了，暴雪解除时，你就报警，让警察尽快赶到。我认为其他两个人会尽快从密道折回想要取走书稿。一旦他们到了，我们就可以一网打尽，您觉得呢？”
　　“当然！”昆廷叔叔说。
　　范妮婶婶看起来好像不想再发生更多惊险刺激的事了，她说：“好了，你们几个都快冻僵了，一定也饿坏了，马上就是午餐时间了，快去餐厅的火炉边烤火，乔安娜给我们准备了一顿热腾腾的午餐，然后我们再讨论该怎么做。”
　　当然，没有人对罗兰德先生说过一句话。他躺在床上，时不时地咳嗽。乔治已经悄悄锁上了他的门，不能让他出来溜达，以及偷听到任何事情！
　　孩子们享受着热腾腾的午餐，感觉舒服了很多。他们高兴地坐在一起，谈论着这次冒险经历。
　　“当然，我会报警，”昆廷叔叔说，“今晚我们让蒂米在书房中等着那两位画家，给他们一个精彩的欢迎仪式！”
　　那天下午罗兰德先生穿上衣服想要下楼，却发现自己房间的门被锁上了，他非常生气，愤怒地敲打着房门。
　　乔治笑着走上楼去，她已经告诉其他孩子是她把门锁上的。
　　“怎么了，罗兰德先生？”她礼貌地问。
　　“哦，是你，乔治，是吗？”罗兰德先生说，“好吧，看看我的门有什么问题，好吗？我打不开它。”
　　当她锁上门时，已经把钥匙收入了自己的口袋。她愉快地回答罗兰德先生：“哦，罗兰德先生，门上没有钥匙，所以我也没法开锁，我去看看能不能找到！”
　　罗兰德先生怒火中烧，感到困惑。他无法理解为什么他的门被锁上，钥匙也没了。他根本没想到现在每个人都知道他的真面目了。
　　当乔治下楼告诉大家关于门锁的事情时，昆廷叔叔笑了：“他一定会被绳之以法，现在已经无法逃脱。”
　　那天晚上，大家都早早睡觉了，蒂米留在书房中，守着洞口。
　　房门还没有打开，罗兰德先生变得越来越焦躁。他大喊昆廷叔叔，但只有乔治来了，罗兰德先生无法理解。
　　当然了，乔治很开心。她让蒂米在罗兰德先生的门外吠叫，这也使他感到困惑，因为他知道乔治不应该在三天内见到蒂米。狂乱的思绪从他的脑海中掠过，难道那个乖戾、叛逆的孩子把她的父母、乔安娜，还有自己一起关起来了吗？他无法想象究竟发生了什么。
　　半夜，蒂米疯狂地吠叫，吵醒了所有人。昆廷叔叔和孩子们匆匆赶到楼下，接着是范妮婶婶和震惊的乔安娜，眼前的景象映入眼中：威尔顿先生和托马斯先生正蹲在书房的沙发后面，害怕地看着咆哮的蒂米！蒂米挡在洞口处，这样两个人就无处可逃。聪明的蒂米！它一直悄无声息地等着，直到那两个男人从洞口进入书房，正摸索着想知道自己身在哪里时——然后蒂米跳到洞口旁挡住了洞口，防止两个坏蛋逃跑。
　　“晚上好，威尔顿先生，晚上好，托马斯先生，”乔治礼貌地说道，“你们是来看罗兰德先生的吗？”
　　“所以这是他住的地方！”威尔顿先生说，“今天在密道中的孩子就是你？”
　　“没错！还有我的堂兄妹，”乔治说，“你们是来找从我爸爸这里窃取的书稿吗？”
　　这两个人沉默不语，他们心知肚明被抓个人赃俱获。威尔顿先生过了一会儿开口道：“罗兰德先生在哪儿？”
　　“我们要把这些人带到罗兰德先生那里吗，昆廷叔叔？”朱利安对乔治眨了眨眼，“虽然现在是深更半夜，但我相信罗兰德先生很想见到他们。”
　　“当然，”昆廷叔叔立刻领会了朱利安的意图，“把他们带去，蒂米，你也一起去。”
　　两个男人跟着朱利安上楼，蒂米紧紧跟在后面。乔治也跟着，她笑着把钥匙递给朱利安。门开了，两个男人走了进去，就在朱利安打开灯的时候，罗兰德先生清醒过来，看到了他的同伙，立刻变得惊讶不已。
　　他们还没来得及说一句话，朱利安再次把门锁上，把钥匙扔给了乔治。“一网打尽，”朱利安说，“我们把蒂米留在门外，看着他们。他们不可能从窗户逃走，就算他们那样逃出去，也会被大雪困住。”
　　所有人都再次回去睡觉了，但孩子们此刻激动得难以入睡。安妮和乔治窃窃私语，朱利安和迪克也是如此，他们想说的事太多了。
　　第二天，还有一个惊喜，警察赶到了！大雪没有阻挡他们的脚步，即使是冰天雪地的地方，他们也会踩着滑雪板及时赶到，毫无畏惧，把所有的坏蛋绳之以法！这对每个人来说都是一种巨大的鼓舞。
　　“先生，等到暴风雪停了，我们就会把人带走，”警员说，“我们会给他们戴上手铐，这样他们就逃脱不了了。你们把门锁上，留下大狗看门，他们被关在这里一两天没什么问题。我们给他们带了足够的食物，完全可以坚持到我们再次回来。如果他们敢动一点歪心思，就让他们好看！”
　　两天后冰雪融化了，警察带走了罗兰德先生一伙，孩子们看着他们消失在视线里。
　　“再也不用上课了！”安妮兴高采烈地说。
　　“再也不要让蒂米待在院子里了！”乔治说。
　　“你是对的，是我们错了，乔治，”朱利安说，“虽然你是个暴脾气，但要不是你，这件事不会解决得这么漂亮！”
　　“她真是个暴脾气，不是吗？”迪克说着突然拥抱了这个女孩，“但是，我更喜欢凶巴巴的乔治，不是吗，朱利安？乔治，每次和你在一起我们都能经历惊心动魄的冒险！你什么时候带我们开启下一次冒险之旅啊？”
　　毫无疑问，他们马上就会开始下一次冒险了！
