Chapter One BACK TO KIRRIN COTTAGE
Chapter One BACK TO KIRRIN COTTAGE
ONE fine day right at the beginning of the Easter holidays, four children and a dog travelled by traintogether.
'Soon be there now,' said Julian, a tall strong boy, with a determined face.
'Woof,' said Timothy the dog, getting excited, and trying to look out of the window too.
'Get down, Tim,' said Julian, 'Let Anne have a look.'
Anne was his young sister. She put her head out of the window. 'We're coming into Kirrin Station!'
she said. I do hope Aunt Fanny will be there to meet us.'
'Of course she will!' said Georgina, her cousin. She looked more like a boy than a girl, for she woreher hair very short, and it curled close about her head. She too had a determined face, like Julian. Shepushed Anne away and looked out of the window.
'It's nice to be going home,' she said. 'I love school - but it will be fun to be at Kirrin Cottage andperhaps sail out to Kirrin Island and visit the castle there. We haven't been since last summer.'
'Dick's turn to look out now,' said Julian, turning to his younger brother, a boy with a pleasant face,sitting reading in a corner. 'We're just coming into sight of Kirrin, Dick. Can't you stop reading for asecond?'
'It's such an exciting book,' said Dick, and shut it with a clap. 'The most exciting adventure story I'veever read!
'Pooh! I bet it's not as exciting as some of the adventures we've had!' said Anne, at once.
It was quite true that the five of them, counting in Timmy the dog, who always shared everythingwith them, had had the most amazing adventures together. But now it looked as if they were going tohave nice quiet holidays, going for long walks over the cliffs, and perhaps sailing out in George's boatto their island of Kirrin.
'I've worked jolly hard at school this term,' said Julian. 'I could do with a holiday!'
'You've gone thin,' said Georgina. Nobody called her that. They all called her George. She wouldnever answer to any other name. Julian grinned.
'Well, I'll soon get fat at Kirrin Cottage, don't you worry! Aunt Fanny will see to that. She's a greatone for trying to fatten people up. It will be nice to see your mother again, George. She's an awfullygood sort.'
2
'Yes. I hope Father will be in a good temper these holls,' said George. 'He ought to be because he hasjust finished some new experiments, Mother says, which have been quite successful.'
George's father was a scientist, always working out new ideas. He liked to be quiet, and sometimeshe flew into a temper when he could not get the peace he needed or things did not go exactly as hewanted them to. The children often thought that hot-tempered Georgina was very like her father! Shetoo could fly into fierce tempers when things did not go right for her.
Aunt Fanny was there to meet them. The four children jumped out on the platform and rushed to hugher. George got there first. She was very fond of her gentle mother, who had so often tried to shieldher when her father got angry with her. Timmy pranced round, barking in delight. He adoredGeorge's mother.
She patted him, and he tried to stand up and lick her face. 'Timmy's bigger than ever!' she said,laughing. 'Down, old boy! You'll knock me over.'
Timmy was certainly a big dog. All the children loved him, for he was loyal, loving and faithful.
His brown eyes looked from one to the other, enjoying the children's excitement. Timmy shared in it,as he shared in everything.
But the person he loved most, of course, was his mistress, George. She had had him since he was asmall puppy. She took him to school with her each term, for she and Anne went to a boarding-schoolthat allowed pets. Otherwise George would most certainly have refused to go!
They set off to Kirrin in the pony-trap. It was very windy and cold, and the children shivered andpulled their coats tightly round them.
'It's awfully cold,' said Anne, her teeth beginning to chatter. 'Colder than in the winter!'
'It's the wind,' said her aunt, and tucked a rug round her. 'It's been getting very strong the last day ortwo. The fishermen have pulled their boats high up the beach for fear of a big storm.'
The children saw the boats pulled right up as they passed the beach where they had bathed so often.
They did not feel like bathing now. It made them shiver even to think of it.
The wind howled over the sea. Great scudding clouds raced overhead. The waves pounded on thebeach and made a terrific noise. It excited Timmy, who began to bark.
'Be quiet, Tim,' said George, patting him. 'You will have to learn to be a good quiet dog now we arehome again, or Father will be cross with you. Is Father very busy, Mother?'
'Very,' said her mother. 'But he's going to do very little work now as you are coming home.
Would like to go for walks with you, or go out in the boat, if the weather calms down.'
3
The children looked at one another. Uncle Quentin was not the best of companions. He had no senseof humour, and when the children went off into fits of laughter, as they did twenty times a day ormore, he could not see the joke at all.
'It looks as if these holls won't be quite so jolly if Uncle Quentin parks himself on us most of thetime,' said Dick in a low voice to Julian.
'Sh,' said Julian, afraid that his aunt would hear, and be hurt. George frowned.
'Oh Mother! Father will be bored stiff if he comes with us - and we'll be bored too.'
George was very outspoken, and could never learn to keep a guard on her tongue. Her mother sighed.
'Don't talk like that, dear. I daresay your father will get tired of going with you after a bit.
But it does him good to have a bit of young life about him.'
'Here we are!' said Julian, as the trap stopped outside an old house. 'Kirrin Cottage! My word, howthe wind is howling round it, Aunt Fanny!'
'Yes. It made a terrible noise last night,' said his aunt. 'You take the trap round to the back, Julian,when we've got the things out. Oh, here's your uncle to help!'
Uncle Quentin came out, a tall, clever-looking man, with rather frowning eyebrows. He smiled at thechildren and kissed George and Anne.
'Welcome to Kirrin Cottage!' he said. 'I'm quite glad your mother and father are away, Anne, becausenow we shall have you all here once again!'
Soon they were sitting round the table eating a big tea. Aunt Fanny always got ready a fine meal fortheir first one, for she knew they were very hungry after their long journey in the train.
Even George was satisfied at last, and leaned back in her chair, wishing she could manage just onemore of her mother's delicious new-made buns.
Timmy sat close to her. He was not supposed to be fed at meal-times but it was really surprising howmany titbits found their way to him under the table!
The wind howled round the house. The windows rattled, the doors shook, and the mats liftedthemselves up and down as the draught got under them.
'They look as if they've got snakes wriggling underneath them,' said Anne. Timmy watched them, andgrowled. He was a clever dog, but he did not know why the mats wriggled in such a queer way.
'I hope the wind will die down tonight,' said Aunt Fanny. 'It kept me awake last night. Julian dear,you look rather thin. Have you been working hard? I must fatten you up.'
4
The children laughed. 'Just what we thought you'd say, Mother!' said George. 'Goodness, what's that?'
They all sat still, startled. There was a loud bumping noise on the roof, and Timmy put up his earsand growled fiercely.
'A tile off the roof,' said Uncle Quentin. 'How tiresome! We shall have to get the loose tiles seen to,Fanny, when the storm is over, or the rain will come in.'
The children rather hoped that their uncle would retire to his study after tea, as he usually did, but thistime he didn't. They wanted to play a game, but it wasn't much good with Uncle Quentin there. Hereally wasn't any good at all, not even at such a simple game as snap.
'Do you know a boy called Pierre Lenoir!' suddenly asked Uncle Quentin, taking a letter from hispocket. 'I believe he goes to your school and Dick's, Julian.'
Pierre Lenoir - oh you mean old Sooty,' said Julian. 'Yes - he's in Dick's form, sir. Mad as a hatter.'
'Sooty! Now why do you call him that?' said Uncle Quentin. 'It seems a silly name for a boy.'
'If you saw him you wouldn't think so,' said Dick, with a laugh. 'He's awfully dark! Hair as black assoot, eyes like bits of coal, eyebrows that look as if they've been put in with charcoal. And his namemeans "The black one," doesn't it? Le-noir - that's French for black.'
'Yes. Quite true. But what a name to give anyone - Sooty' said Uncle Quentin. 'Well, I've been havingquite a lot of correspondence with this boy's father. He and I are interested in the same scientificmatters. In fact, I've asked him whether he wouldn't like to come and stay with me a few days - andbring his boy, Pierre.'
'Oh really!' said Dick, looking quite pleased. 'Well, it wouldn't be bad sport to have old Sooty here,Uncle. But he's quite mad. He never does as he's told, he climbs like a monkey, and he can be awfullycheeky. I don't know if you'd like him much.'
Uncle Quentin looked sorry he had asked Sooty after he had heard what Dick had to say. He didn'tlike cheeky boys. Nor did he like mad ones.
'H'm,' he said, putting the letter away. 'I wish I'd asked you about the boy first, before suggesting tohis father that he might bring him with him. But perhaps I can prevent him coming.'
'No, don't, Father,' said George, who rather liked the sound of Sooty Lenoir. 'Let's have him. Hecould come out with us and liven things up!'
5
'We'll see,' said her father, who had already made up his mind on no account to have the boy at KirrinCottage, if he was mad, climbed everywhere, and was cheeky. George was enough of a handfulwithout a madcap of a boy egging her on!
Much to the children's relief Uncle Quentin retired to read by himself about eight o'clock. AuntFanny looked at the clock.
'Time for Anne to go to bed,' she said. 'And you too, George.'
'Just one good game of Slap-Down Patience, all of us playing it together, Mother!' said George.
'Come on - you play it too. It's our first evening at home. Anyway, I shan't sleep for ages, with thisgale howling round! Come on, Mother - one good game, then we'll go to bed. Julian's been yawninglike anything already!'
1.




























20
















 

 











Chapter Two A SHOCK IN THE NIGHT
Chapter Two A SHOCK IN THE NIGHT
IT was nice to climb up the steep stairs to their familiar bedrooms that night. All the children wereyawning widely. Their long train journey had tired them.
'If only this awful wind would stop!' said Anne, pulling the curtain aside and looking out into thenight. 'There's a little moon, George. It keeps bobbing out between the scurrying clouds.'
'Let it bob!' said George, scrambling into bed. I'm jolly cold. Hurry, Anne, or you'll catch a chill atthat window.'
'Don't the waves make a noise?' said Anne, still at the window. 'And the gale in the old ash-tree ismaking a whistling, howling sound, and bending it right over.'
'Timmy, hurry up and get on my bed,' commanded George, screwing up her cold toes. 'That's onegood thing about being at home, Anne. I can have Timmy on my bed! He's far better than a hot waterbottle.'
'You're not supposed to have him on your bed at home, any more than you're supposed to at school,'
said Anne, curling up in bed. 'Aunt Fanny thinks he sleeps in his basket over there.'
'Well, I can't stop him coming on my bed at night, can I, if he doesn't want to sleep in his basket?'
said George. 'That's right, Timmy darling. Make my feet warm. Where's your nose? Let me pat it.
Good-night, Tim. Good-night, Anne.'
'Good-night,' said Anne, sleepily. 'I hope that Sooty boy comes, don't you? He does sound fun.'
6
'Yes. And anyway father would stay in with Mr. Lenoir, the boy's father, and not come out with us,'
said George. 'Father doesn't mean to, but he does spoil things somehow.'
'He's not very good at laughing,' said Anne. 'He's too serious.'
A loud bang made both girls jump. 'That's the bathroom door!' said George, with a groan. 'One of theboys must have left it open. That's the sort of noise that drives Father mad! There it goes again!'
'Well, let Julian or Dick shut it,' said Anne, who was now beginning to feel nice and warm. But Julianand Dick were thinking that George or Anne might shut it, so nobody got out of bed to see to thebanging door.
Very soon Uncle Quentin's voice roared up the stairs, louder than the gale.
'Shut that door, one of you! How can I work with that noise going on!'
All four children jumped out of bed like a shot. Timmy leapt off George's bed. Everyone fell overhim as they rushed to the bathroom door. There was a lot of giggling and scuffling. Then UncleQuentin's footsteps were heard on the stairs and the five fled silently to their looms.
The gale still roared. Uncle Quentin and Aunt Fanny came up to bed. The bedroom door flew out ofUncle Quentin's hand and slammed itself shut so violently that a vase leapt off a nearby shelf.
Uncle Quentin leapt too, startled. 'This wretched gale!' he said, fiercely. 'Never known one like it allthe time we've been here. If it gets much worse the fishermen's boats will be smashed up, eventhough they've pulled them as high up the beach as possible.'
'It will blow itself out soon, dear,' said Aunt Fanny, soothingly. 'Probably by the time morning comesit will be quite calm.'
But she was wrong. The gale did not blow itself out that night. Instead it raged round the house evenmore fiercely, shrieking and howling like a live thing. Nobody could sleep. Timmy kept up acontinuous low growling, for he did not like the shakes and rattles and howls.
Towards dawn the wind seemed in a fury. Anne thought it sounded as if it was in a horrible temper,out to do all the harm it could. She lay and trembled, half-frightened.
Suddenly there was a strange noise. It was a loud and woeful groaning and creaking, like someone ingreat pain. The two girls sat up, terrified. What could it be?
The boys heard it too. Julian leapt out of bed and ran to the window. Outside stood the old ash tree,tall and black in the fitful moonlight. It was gradually bending over!
7
'It's the ash! It's falling!' yelled Julian, almost startling Dick out of his wits. 'It's falling, I tell you.
It'll crash on the house! Quick, warn the girls!'
Shouting at the top of his voice, Julian raced out of his door on to the landing. 'Uncle! Aunt!
George and Anne! Come downstairs quickly! The ash tree is falling!'
George jumped out of bed, snatched at her dressing-gown, and raced to the door, yelling to Anne.
The little girl was soon with her. Timmy ran in front. At the door of Aunt Fanny's bedroom UncleQuentin appeared, tall and amazed, wrapping his dressing-gown round him.
'What's all this noise? Julian, what's happening?'
'Aunt Fanny! Come downstairs - the ash tree is falling! Listen to its terrible groans and creaks!'
yelled Julian, almost beside himself with impatience. 'It'll smash in the room and the bedrooms!
Listen, here it comes!'
Everyone fled downstairs as, with an appalling wail, the great ash tree hauled up its roots and fellheavily on to Kirrin Cottage. There was a terrible crash, and the sound of tiles slipping to the groundeverywhere.
'Oh dear!' said poor Aunt Fanny, covering her eyes. 'I knew something would happen! Quentin, weought to have had that ash tree topped. I knew it would fall in a great gale like this. What has it doneto the roof?'
After the great crash there had come other smaller noises, sounds of things falling, thuds and littlesmashing noises. The children could not imagine what was happening. Timmy was thoroughly angry,and barked loudly. Uncle Quentin slapped his hand angrily on the table, and made everyone jump.
'Stop that dog barking! I'll turn him out!' But nothing would stop Timmy barking or growling thatnight, and George at last pushed him into the warm kitchen, and shut the door on him.
'I feel like barking or growling myself,' said Anne, who knew exactly what Timmy felt like.
'Julian, has the tree broken in the roof?'
Uncle Quentin took a powerful torch and went carefully up the stairs to the landing to see whatdamage had been done. He came down looking rather pale.
'The tree has crashed through the attic, smashed the roof in, and wrecked the girls' bedroom,' he said.
'A big branch has penetrated the boys' room too, but not badly, But the girls' room is ruined! Theywould have been killed if they had been in their beds.'
8
Everyone was silent. It was an awful thought that George and Anne had had such a narrow escape.
'Good thing I yelled my head off to warn them, then,' said Julian, cheerfully, seeing how white Annehad gone.
'Cheer up, Anne - think what a tale you'll have to tell at school next term.'
'I think some hot cocoa would do us all good,' said Aunt Fanny, pulling herself together, though shefelt very shaken. 'I'll go and make some. Quentin, see if the fire is still alight in your study.
We want a little warmth!'
The fire was still alight. Everyone crowded round it. They welcomed Aunt Fanny when she came inwith some steaming milk-cocoa.
Anne looked curiously round the room as she sat sipping her drink. This was where her uncle did hiswork, his very clever work. He wrote his difficult books here, books which Anne could notunderstand at all. He drew his queer diagrams here, and made many strange experiments.
But just at the moment Uncle Quentin did not look very clever. He looked rather ashamed, somehow.
Anne soon knew why.
'Quentin, it is a mercy none of us was hurt or killed,' said Aunt Fanny, looking at him rather sternly. Itold you a dozen times you should get that ash tree topped. I knew it was too big and heavy towithstand a great gale. I was always afraid it would blow down on the house.'
'Yes, I know, my dear,' said Uncle Quentin, stirring his cup of cocoa very vigorously. 'But I was sobusy these last months.'
'You always make that an excuse for not doing urgent things,' said Aunt Fanny, with a sigh. 'I shallhave to manage things myself in the future. I can't risk our lives like this!'
'Well, a thing like this would only happen once in a blue moon!' cried Uncle Quentin, getting angry.
Then he calmed down, seeing that Aunt Fanny was really shocked and upset, very near to tears. Heput down his cocoa and slipped his arm round her.
'You've had a terrible shock,' he said. 'Don't you worry about things. Maybe they won't be so badwhen morning comes.'
'Oh, Quentin - they'll be much worse!' said his wife. 'Where shall we sleep tonight, all of us, and whatshall we do till the roof and upstairs rooms are repaired? The children have only just come home. Thehouse will be full of workmen for weeks! I don't know how I'm going to manage.'
9
'Leave it all to me!' said Uncle Quentin. 'I'll settle everything. Don't you worry. I'm sorry about this,very sorry, particularly as it's my fault. But I'll straighten things out for everyone, you just see!'
Aunt Fanny didn't really believe him, but she was grateful for his comforting. The children listened insilence, drinking their hot cocoa. Uncle Quentin was so very clever, and knew so many things - but itwas so like him to neglect something urgent like cutting off the top of the old ash tree. Sometimes hedidn't seem to live in this world at all!
It was no use going up to bed! The rooms upstairs were either completely ruined, or so messed upwith bits and pieces, and clouds of dust, that it was impossible to sleep there. Aunt Fanny began topile rugs on sofas. There was one in the study, a big one in the sitting-room and a smaller one in thedining-room. She found a camp bed in a cupboard and, with Julian's help, put that up too.
'We'll just have to do the best we can,' she said. 'There isn't much left of the night, but we'll get a littlesleep if we can! The gale is not nearly so wild now.'
'No - it's done all the damage it can, so it's satisfied,' said Uncle Quentin, grimly. 'Well, we'll talkthings over in the morning.'
The children found it very difficult to go to sleep after such an excitement, tired though they were.
Anne felt worried. How could they all stay at Kirrin Cottage now? It wouldn't be fair on Aunt Fanny.
But they couldn't go home because her father and mother were both away and the house was shut upfor a month.
'I hope we shan't be sent back to school,' thought Anne, trying to get comfortable on the sofa. 'Itwould be too awful, after having left there, and started off so gaily for the holidays.'
George was afraid of that, too. She felt sure that they would all be packed back to their schools thenext morning. That would mean that she and Anne wouldn't see Julian and Dick any more theseholidays, for the boys, of course, went to a different school.
Timmy was the only one who didn't worry about things. He lay on George's feet, snoring a little,quite happy. So long as he was with George he didn't really mind where he went!
2.




























































Chapter Three UNCLE QUENTIN HAS AN IDEA
Chapter Three UNCLE QUENTIN HAS AN IDEA
NEXT morning the wind was still high, but the fury of the gale was gone. The fishermen on thebeach were relieved to find that their boats had suffered very little damage. But word soon wentround about the accident to Kirrm Cottage, and a few sightseers came up to marvel at the sight of thegreat, uprooted tree, lying heavily on the little house.
The children rather enjoyed the importance of relating how nearly they had escaped with their lives.
In the light of day it was surprising what damage the big tree had done. It had cracked the roof of thehouse like an eggshell, and the rooms upstairs were in a terrible mess.
The woman who came up from the village to help Aunt Fanny during the day exclaimed at the sight:
'Why, Mam, it'll take weeks to set that right!' she said. 'Have you got on to the builders, Mam? I'd getthem up here right away and let them see what's to be done.'
I'm seeing to things, Mrs. Daly,' said Uncle Quentin. 'My wife has had a great shock. She is not fit tosee to things herself. The first thing to do is to decide what is to happen to the children.
They can't remain here while there are no usable bedrooms.'
'They had better go back to school, poor things,' said Aunt Fanny.
'No. I've a better idea than that,' said Uncle Quentin, fishing a letter out of his pocket. 'Much better.
I've had a letter from that fellow Lenoir this morning - you know, the one who's interested in thesame kind of experiments as I am. He says - er, wait a minute, I'll read you the bit. Yes, here it is.'
Uncle Quentin read it out: 'It is most kind of you to suggest my coming to stay with you and bringingmy boy Pierre. Allow me to extend hospitality to you and your children also. I do not know howmany you have, but all are welcome here in this big house. My Pierre will be glad of company, andso will his sister, Marybelle.'
Uncle Quentin looked up triumphantly at his wife. 'There you are! I call that a most generousinvitation! It couldn't have come at a better time. We'll pack the whole of the children off to thisfellow's house.'
'But Quentin - you can't possibly do that! Why, we don't know anything about him or his family!'
said Aunt Fanny.
11
'His boy goes to the same school as Julian and Dick, and I know Lenoir is a remarkable, cleverfellow,' said Uncle Quentin, as if that was all that really mattered. 'I'll telephone him now. What's hisnumber?'
Aunt Fanny felt helpless in face of her husband's sudden determination to settle everything himself.
He was ashamed because it was his forgetfulness that had brought on the accident to the house. Nowhe was going to show that he could see to things if he liked. She heard him telephoning, and frowned.
How could they possibly send off the children to a strange place like that?
Uncle Quentin put down the receiver, and went to find his wife, looking jubilant and very pleasedwith himself.
'It's all settled,' he said. 'Lenoir is delighted, most delighted. Says he loves children about the place,and so does his wife, and his two will be thrilled to have them. If we can hire a car today, they can goat once.'
'But, Quentin - we can't let them go off like that to strange people! They'll hate it! I shouldn't besurprised if George refuses to go,' said his wife.
'Oh - that reminds me. She's not to take Timothy, said Uncle Quentin. 'Apparently Lenoir doesn't likedogs.'
'Well, then, you know George won't go!' said his wife. 'That's foolish, Quentin. George won't goanywhere without Timmy.'
'She'll have to, this time,' said Uncle Quentin, quite determined that George should not upset all hismarvellous plans. 'Here are the children. I'll ask them what they feel about going, and see what theysay!'
He called them into his study. They came in, feeling sure that they were to hear bad news -probably they were all to return to school!
'You remember that boy I spoke to you about last night?' began Uncle Quentin. Pierre Lenoir.
You had some absurd name for him.'
'Sooty,' said Dick and Julian together.
'Ah yes, Sooty. Well, his father has kindly invited you all to go and stay with him at Smuggler's Top,'
said Uncle Quentin.
The children were astonished.
'Smuggler's Top!' said Dick, his fancy caught by the queer name. 'What's Smuggler's Top?'
12
'The name of his house' said Uncle Quentin. 'It's very old, built on the top of a queer hill surroundedby marshes over which the sea once flowed. The hill was once an island, but now it's just a tall hillrising up from the marsh. Smuggling went on there in the old days. It's a very peculiar place, so I'veheard.'
All this made the children feel excited. Also Julian and Dick had always liked Sooty Lenoir. He wasquite mad, but awfully good fun. They might have a first-rate time with him.
'Well - would you like to go? Or would you rather go back to school for the holidays?' asked UncleQuentin impatiently.
'Oh no - not back to school!' said everyone at once.
'I'd love to go to Smuggler's Top,' said Dick. 'It sounds a thrilling place. And I always liked oldSooty, especially since he sawed half through one of the legs of our form-master's chair. It gave wayat once when Mr. Toms sat down!'
'H'm. I don't see that a trick like that is any reason for liking someone,' said Uncle Quentin, beginningto feel a little doubtful about Master Lenoir. 'Perhaps, on the whole, school would be best for you.'
'Oh no, no!' cried everyone. 'Let's go to Smuggler's Top! Do, do let's!'
'Very well,' said "Uncle Quentin, pleased at their eagerness to follow his plan. 'As a matter of fact, Ihave already settled it. I telephoned a few minutes ago. Mr. Lenoir was very kind about it all.'
'Can I take Timmy?' asked George, suddenly.
'No,' said her father. I'm afraid not. Mr. Lenoir doesn't like dogs.'
'Then I shouldn't like him' said George, sulkily. 'I won't go without Timmy.'
'You'll have to go back to school, then,' said her father, sharply. 'And take off that sulky expression,George. You know how I dislike it.'
But George wouldn't. She turned away. The others looked at her in dismay. Surely old George wasn'tgoing to get into one of her moods, and spoil everything! It would be fun to go to Smuggler's Top.
But, of course, it certainly wouldn't be so much fun without Timmy. Still - they couldn't all go backto school just because George wouldn't go anywhere without her dog.
They all went into the sitting-room. Anne put her arm through George's. George shook it off.
'George! You simply must come with us,' said Anne, 'I can't bear to go without you - it would beawful to see you going back to school all alone.'
13
'I shouldn't be all alone,' said George. 'I should have Timmy.'
The others pressed her to change her mind, but she shook them off. 'Leave me alone,' she said. 'I wantto think. How are we supposed to get to Smuggler's Top, and where is it? Which road do we take?'
'We're going by car, and it's right up the coast somewhere, so I expect we'll take the coast-road,'
said Julian. 'Why, George?'
'Don't ask questions,' said George. She went out with Timmy. The others didn't follow her.
George was not very nice when she was cross.
Aunt Fanny began to pack for them, though it was impossible to get some of the things from the girls'
room. After a time George came back, but Timmy was not with her. She looked more cheerful.
'Where's Tim?' asked Anne, at once.
'Out somewhere,' said George.
'Are you coming with us, George?' asked Julian, looking at her.
'Yes. I've made up my mind to,' said George, but for some reason she wouldn't look Julian in theeyes. He wondered why.
Aunt Fanny gave them all an early lunch, and then a big car came for them. They packed themselvesinside. Uncle Quentin gave them all sorts of messages for Mr. Lenoir, and Aunt Fanny kissed themgood-bye. 'I do hope you have a nice time at Smuggler's Top,' she said. 'Mind you write at once andtell me all about it.'
'Aren't we going to say good-bye to Timmy?' said Anne, her eyes opening wide in amazement atGeorge forgetting. 'George, surely you're not going without saying good-bye to old Timmy!'
'Can't stop now,' said Uncle Quentin, afraid that George might suddenly become awkward again.
'Right, driver! You can go off now. Don't drive too fast, please.'
Waving and shouting the children drove away from Kirrin Cottage, sad when they looked back andsaw the smashed roof under the fallen tree. Never mind - they had not been sent back to school. Thatwas the main thing. Their spirits rose as they thought of Sooty and his queerly- named home,Smuggler's Top.
'Smuggler's Top! It sounds too exciting for words!' said Anne. 'I can picture it, an old house right onthe top of a hill. Fancy being an island once. I wonder why the sea went back and left marshesinstead.
14
George said nothing for a while, and the car speeded on. The others glanced at her once or twice, butcame to the conclusion that she was grieving about Timmy. Still she didn't look very sad!
The car went over a hill and speeded down to the bottom. When they got there George leanedforward and touched the driver's arm.
'Would you stop a moment, please? We have to pick somebody up here.'
Julian, Dick and Anne stared at George in surprise. The driver, also rather surprised, drew the car to astandstill. George opened the car door and gave a loud whistle.
Something shot out of the hedge and hurled itself joyfully into the car. It was Timmy! He lickedeveryone, trod on everyone's toes, and gave the little short barks that showed he was excited andhappy.
'Well,' said the driver, doubtfully, 'I don't know if you're supposed to take that dog in, Miss. Yourfather didn't say anything about him.'
'It's all right,' said George, her face red with joy. 'Quite all right. You needn't worry. Start the caragain, please.'
'You are a monkey!' said Julian, half-annoyed with George, and half-pleased because Timmy waswith them after all. 'Mr. Lenoir may send him back, you know.'
'Well, he'll have to send me back too,' said George, defiantly. 'Anyhow, the main thing is, we've gotTimmy after all, and I am coming with you.'
'Yes - that's fine,' said Anne, and gave first George and then Timmy a hug. I didn't like going withoutTim either.'
'On to Smuggler's Top!' said Dick, as the car started off again. 'On to Smuggler's Top. I wonder if weshall have any adventures there!'
3.



































































Chapter Four SMUGGLER'S TOP
Chapter Four SMUGGLER'S TOP
THE car sped on, mostly along the coast, though it sometimes went inland for a few miles. But,sooner or later it was in sight of the sea again. The children enjoyed the long drive. They were to stopsomewhere for lunch, and the driver told them he knew of a good inn.
At half past twelve he drew up outside an old inn, and they all trooped in. Julian took charge, andordered lunch. It was a very good one, and all the children enjoyed it. So did Timmy. The 15innkeeper liked dogs, and put down such a piled-up plate for Timmy that the dog hardly liked tobegin on his meal in case it was not for him!
He looked up at George and she nodded to him. 'It's your dinner, Timmy. Eat it up.'
So he ate it, hoping that if they were going to stay anywhere they might be staying at the inn.
Meals like this did not arrive every day for a hungry dog!
But after lunch the children got up. They went to find the driver, who was having his lunch in thekitchen with the innkeeper and his wife. They were old friends of his.
'Well, I hear you're going to Castaway,' said the innkeeper, getting up. 'You be careful there!'
'Castaway!' said Julian. 'Is that what the hill is called, where Smuggler's Top is?'
'That's its name,' said the innkeeper.
'Why is it called that?' said Anne. 'What a funny name! Were people cast away on it once, when itwas an island?'
'Oh no. The old story goes that the hill was once joined to the mainland,' said the innkeeper. 'But itwas the haunt of bad people, and one of the saints became angry with the place, and cast it away intothe sea, where it became an island.'
'And so it was called Castaway,' said Dick. 'But perhaps it has got good again, because the sea hasgone away from it, and you can walk from the mainland to the hill, can't you?'
'Yes. There's one good road you can take,' said the innkeeper. 'But you be careful of wandering awayfrom it, if you go walking on it! The marsh will suck you down, in no time if you set foot on it!'
'It does sound a most exciting place,' said George. 'Smuggler's Top on Castaway Hill! Only one roadto it!'
'Time to get on,' said the driver, looking at the clock. 'You've got to be there before tea, your unclesaid.'
They got into the car again, Timmy clambering over legs and feet to a comfortable place on George'slap. He was far too big and heavy to lie there but just occasionally he seemed to want to, and Georgenever had the heart to refuse him.
They drove off once more. Anne fell asleep, and the others felt drowsy too. The car purred on and on.
It began to rain, and the countryside looked rather dreary.
The driver turned round after a while and spoke to Julian. 'We're coming near to Castaway Hill, Sir.
We'll soon be leaving the mainland, and taking the road across the marsh.'
16
Julian woke Anne. They all sat up expectantly. But it was very disappointing after all! The marsheswere full of mist! The children could not pierce through it with their eyes, and could only see the flatroad they were on, raised a little higher than the surrounding flat marsh.
When the mist shifted a little now and again the children saw a dreary space of flat marsh on eitherside.
'Stop a minute, driver,' said Julian. I'd like to see what the marsh is like.
'Well, don't step off the road,' warned the driver, stopping the car. 'And don't you let that dog out,Miss. Once he runs off the road and gets into the marsh, he'll be gone for good.'
'What do you mean - gone for good?' said Anne, her eyes wide.
'He means the marsh will suck down Timmy at once,' said Julian. 'Shut him in the car, George.'
So Timmy, much to his disgust, was shut safely in the car. He pawed at the door, and tried to look outof the window. The driver turned and spoke to him. 'It's all right. They'll be back soon, old fellow!'
But Timmy whined all the time the others were out of the car. He saw them go to the edge of theroad. He saw Julian jump down the couple of feet that raised the road above the marsh.
There was a line of raised stones running in the marsh alongside the road. Julian stood on one ofthese peering at the flat marsh.
'It's mud,' he said. 'Loose, squelchy mud! Look, when I touch it with my foot it moves! It would soonsuck me down if I trod heavily on it.'
Anne didn't like it. She called to Julian. 'Come up on the road again. I'm afraid you'll fall in.'
Mists were wreathing and swirling over the salty marshes. It was a weird place, cold and damp.
None of the children liked it. Timmy began to bark in the car.
'Tim will scratch the car to bits if we don't get back,' said George. So they all went back, rather silent.
Julian wondered how many travellers had been lost in that strange sea-marsh.
'Oh, there's many that's never been heard of again,' said the driver, when they asked him. 'They dosay there's one or two winding paths that go to the hill from the mainland, that were used before theroad was built. But unless you know every inch of them you're off them in a trice, and find your feetsinking in the mud.'
'It's horrid to think about,' said Anne. 'Don't let's talk about it any more. Can we see Castaway Hillyet?'
17
'Yes. There it is, looming up in the mist,' said the driver. 'The top of it is out of the mist, see?
Queer place, isn't it?'
The children looked in silence. Out of the slowly moving mists rose, a tall, steep hill, whose rockysides were as steep as cliffs. The hill seemed to swim in the mists, and to have no roots in the earth. Itwas covered with buildings which even at that distance looked old and quaint. Some of them hadtowers.
'That must be Smuggler's Top, right at the summit,' said Julian, pointing. 'It's like an old building ofcenturies ago - probably is! Look at the tower it has. What a wonderful view you'd get from it.'
The children gazed at the place where they were to stay. It looked exciting and picturesque, certainly- but it also looked rather forbidding.
'It's sort of - sort of secret, somehow,' said Anne, putting into words what the others were thinking. 'Imean it looks as if it had kept all kinds of queer secrets down the centuries. I guess it could tell plentyof tales!'
The car drove on again, quite slowly, because the mists came down thickly. The road had a line ofsparkling round buttons set all along the middle, and when the driver switched on his fog-lamp, theyshone brightly and guided him well. Then as they neared Castaway Hill the road began to slopeupwards.
'We go through a big archway soon,' said the driver. 'That used to be where the city gate once was.
The whole town is surrounded by wall still, just as it used to be in olden times. It's wide enough towalk on, and if you start at a certain place, and walk long enough, you'll come round to the place youstarted at!'
All the children made up their minds to do this without fail. What a view they would have all roundthe hill, if they chose a fine day!
The road became steeper, and the driver put the engine into a lower gear. It groaned up the hill.
Then it came to an archway, from which old gates were fastened back. It passed through, and thechildren were in Castaway.
'It's almost as if we've gone back through the centuries, and come to somewhere that existed agesago!' said Julian, peering at the old houses and shops, with their cobbled streets, their diamond-panedwindows, and stout old doors.
18
They went up the winding high street, and came at last to a big gateway, set with wrought-iron gates.
The driver hooted and they opened. They swept into a steep drive, and at last stopped beforeSmuggler's Top.
They got out, feeling suddenly shy. The big old house seemed to frown down at them. It was built ofbrick and timber, and its front door was as massive as that of a castle.
Queer gables jutted here and there over the diamond-paned windows. The house's one tower stoodsturdily at the east side of the house, with windows all round. It was not a square tower, but arounded one, and ended in a point.
'Smuggler's Top!' said Julian. 'It's a good name for it somehow. I suppose lots of smuggling went onhere in the old days.'
Dick rang the bell. To do this he had to pull down an iron handle, and a jangling at once made itselfheard in the house.
There was the sound of running feet, and the door was opened. It opened slowly, for it was heavy.
Beyond it stood two children, one a girl of about Anne's age, and the other a boy of Dick's age.
'Here you are at last!' cried the boy, his dark eyes dancing. 'I thought you were never coming!'
'This is Sooty,' said Dick to the girls, who had not met him before. They stared at him.
He was certainly very very dark. Black hair, black eyes, black eyebrows, and a brown face. Incontrast to him the girl beside him looked pale and delicate. She had golden hair, blue eyes and hereyebrows were so faint they could hardly be seen.
'This is Marybelle, my sister,' said Sooty. 'I always think we look like Beauty and the Beast!'
Sooty was nice. Everyone liked him at once. George found herself twinkling at him in a way quitestrange to her, for usually she was shy of strangers, and would not make friends for some time. Butwho could help liking Sooty with his dancing black eyes and his really wicked grin?
'Come in,' said Sooty. 'Driver, you can take the car round to the next door, and Block will take in theluggage for you and give you tea.'
Suddenly Sooty's face lost its smile and grew very solemn. He had seen Timmy!
'I say! I say - that's not your dog, is it?' he said.
'He's mine,' said George, and she laid a protecting-hand on Timmy's head. 'I had to bring him. I can'tgo anywhere without him.'
19
'Yes, but - no dog's allowed at Smuggler's Top,' said Sooty, still looking very worried, and glancingbehind him as if he was afraid someone might come along and see Timmy. 'My stepfather won'tallow any dogs here. Once I brought in a stray one and he licked me till I couldn't sit down - mystepfather licked me, I mean, not the dog.'
Anne gave a frightened little smile at the poor joke. George looked stubborn and sulky.
'I thought -1 thought maybe we could hide him somewhere while we were here,' she said. 'But ifthat's how you feel, I'll go back home with the car. Good-bye.'
She turned and went after the car, which was backing away. Timmy went with her. Sooty stared, andthen he yelled after her. 'Come back, stupid! We'll think of something!'
4.



12






























































Chapter Five SOOTY LENOIR
Chapter Five SOOTY LENOIR
SOOTY ran down the steps that led to the front door, and tore after George. The others followed.
Marybelle went too, shutting the big front door behind her carefully.
There was a small door in the wall just where George was. Sooty caught hold of her and pushed herroughly through the door, holding it open for the others.
'Don't shove me like that,' began George, angrily. 'Timmy will bite you if you push me about.'
'No, he won't,' said Sooty, with a cheerful grin. 'Dogs like me. Even if I boxed your ears your dogwould only wag his tail at me.'
The children found themselves in a dark passage. There was a door at the farther end. 'Wait here aminute and I'll see if the coast is clear,' said Sooty. 'I know my stepfather is in, and I tell you, if hesees that dog he'll pack you all into the car again, and send you back! And I don't want him to do thatbecause I can't tell you how I've looked forward to having you all!'
He grinned at them, and their hearts warmed towards him again, even George's, though she still feltangry at being so roughly pushed. She kept Timmy close beside her.
All the same everyone felt a bit scared of Mr. Lenoir. He sounded rather a fierce sort of person!
Sooty tiptoed to the door at the end of the passage and opened it. He peeped into the room there, andthen came back to the others.
'All clear,' he said. 'We'll take the secret passage to my bedroom. No one will see us then, and oncewe're there we can make plans to hide the dog. Ready?'
20
A secret passage sounded thrilling. Feeling rather as if they were in an adventure story, the childrenwent quietly to the door and into the room beyond. It was a dark, oak-panelled room, evidently astudy of some sort, for there was a big desk there, and the walls were lined with books. There was noone there.
Sooty went to one of the oak panels in the wall, felt along it deftly, and pressed in a certain place.
The panel slid softly aside. Sooty put in his hand and pulled at something. A much larger panel belowslid into the wall, and left an opening big enough for the children to pass through.
'Come on,' said Sooty in a low voice. 'Don't make a row.'
Feeling excited, the children all passed through the opening. Sooty came last, and did something thatshut the opening and slid the first panel back into its place again.
He switched on a small torch, for it was pitch dark where the children were standing.
They were in a narrow stone passage, so narrow that two people could not possibly have passed oneanother unless both were as thin as rakes. Sooty passed his torch along to Julian, who was in front.
'Keep straight on till you come to stone steps,' he said. 'Go up them, turn to the right at the top, andkeep straight on till you come to a blank wall, then I'll tell you what to do.'
Julian led the way, holding up the torch for the others. The narrow passage ran straight, and came tosome stone steps. It was not only very narrow but rather low, so that Anne and Marybelle were theonly ones who did not have to bend their heads.
Anne didn't like it very much. She never liked being in a very narrow enclosed space. It reminded herof dreams she sometimes had of being somewhere she couldn't get away from. She was glad whenJulian spoke. 'The steps are here. Up we go, everyone.'
'Don't make a row,' said Sooty, in a low voice. 'We're passing the dining-room now. There's a wayinto this passage from there too.'
Everyone fell silent, and tried to walk on tiptoe, though this was unexpectedly difficult when headshad to be bent and shoulders stooped.
They climbed up fourteen steps, which were quite steep, and curved round half-way. Julian turned tothe right at the top. The passage ran upwards then, and was as narrow as before. Julian felt certainthat a very fat person could not possibly get along it.
He went on until, with a start, he almost bumped into a blank stone wall! He flashed his torch up anddown it. A low voice came from the back of the line of children.
21
'You've got to the blank wall, Julian. Shine your torch up to where the roof of the passage meets thewall. You will see an iron handle there. Press down on it hard.'
Julian flashed his torch up and saw the handle. He put his torch into his left hand, and grasped thethick iron handle with his right hand. He pressed down as hard as he could.
And, quite silently, the great stone in the middle of the wall slid forward and sideways, leaving agaping hole.
Julian was astonished. He let go the iron handle and flashed his torch into the hole. There was nothingbut darkness there!
'It's all right it leads into a big cupboard in my bedroom!' called Sooty from the back. 'Get through,Julian, and we'll follow. There won't be anyone in my room.'
Julian crawled through the hole and found himself in a spacious cupboard, hung with Booty's clothes.
He groped his way through them and bumped against a door. He opened it and at once daylightflooded into the cupboard, lighting up the way from the passage into the room.
One by one the others clambered through the hole, lost themselves in clothes for a moment and thenwent thankfully into the room through the cupboard door.
Timmy, puzzled and silent, followed close beside George. He had not liked the dark, narrow passagevery much. He was glad to be in daylight again!
Sooty, coming last, carefully closed the opening into the passage by pressing the stone back. Itworked easily, though Julian could not imagine how. There must be some sort of pivot, he thought.
Sooty joined the others in his bedroom, grinning. George had her hand on Timmy's collar. 'It's allright, George,' said Sooty. 'We're quite safe here. My room and Marybelle's are separate from the restof the house. We're in a wing on our own, reached by a long passage!'
He opened the door and showed the others what he meant. There was a room next to his, which wasMarybelle's. Beyond stretched a stone-floored, stone-walled passage, laid with mats. At the end of it abig window let in light. There was a door there, a great oak one, which was shut.
'See? We're quite safe here, all by ourselves,' said Sooty. 'Timmy could bark if he liked, and no onewould know.'
'But doesn't anyone ever come?' said Anne, surprised. 'Who keeps your rooms tidy, and cleans them?'
22
'Oh, Sarah comes and does that every morning,' said Sooty. 'But usually no one else comes. Andanyway, I've got a way of knowing when anyone opens that door!'
He pointed to the door at the end of the passage. The others stared at him.
'How do you know?" said Dick.
'I've rigged up something that makes a buzzing noise here, in my room, as soon as that door isopened,' said Sooty, proudly. 'Look, I'll go along and open it, while you stay here and listen.'
He sped along the passage and opened the heavy door at the end. Immediately a low buzzing noisesounded somewhere in his room, and made everyone jump. Timmy was startled too, pricked up hisears, and growled fiercely.
Sooty shut the door and ran back. 'Did you hear the noise? It's a good idea, isn't it? I'm alwaysthinking of things like that.'
The others thought they had come to rather a queer place! They stared round Sooty's bedroom, whichwas quite ordinary in its furnishings, and in its general untidiness. There was a big diamond-panedwindow, and Anne went to look out of it.
She gave a gasp. She had not expected to look down such a precipice! Smuggler's Top was built atthe summit of the hill, and on the side where Sooty's bedroom was, the hill fell away steeply, downand down to the marsh below!
'Oh look!' she said. 'Look how steep it is! It really gives me a very queer feeling to look down there!'
The others crowded round and looked in silence, for it certainly was strange to gaze down such along way. The sun was shining up on the hill-summit, but all around, as far as they could see, mistshid the marsh and the far-off sea. The only bit of the marsh that could be seen was far down below, atthe bottom of the steep hill.
'When the mists are away, you can see over the flat marshes to where the sea begins,' said Sooty.
'That's quite a fine sight. You can hardly tell where the marsh ends and sea begins except when thesea is very blue. Fancy, once upon a time, the sea came right up and around this hill, and it was anisland.'
'Yes. The innkeeper told us that,' said George. 'Why did the sea go back and leave it?'
'I don't know,' said Sooty. 'People say it's going back farther and farther. There's a big scheme on footto drain the marsh, and turn it into fields, but I don't know if that will ever happen.'
'I don't like that marsh,' said Anne, with a shiver. 'It looks wicked, somehow.'
23
Timmy whined. George remembered that they must hide him, and make plans for him. She turned toSooty.
'Did you mean what you said about hiding Tim?' she asked. 'Where shall we put him? And can he befed? And how can we exercise him? He's a big dog, you know.'
'We'll plan it all,' said Sooty. 'Don't you worry. I love dogs, and I shall be thrilled to have Timmyhere. But I do warn you that if my stepfather ever finds out, we shall probably all get a jolly goodthrashing and you'll be sent home in disgrace.'
'But why doesn't your father like dogs?' said Anne puzzled. 'Is he afraid of them?'
'No, I don't think so. It's just that he won't have them here in the house,' said Sooty. 'I think he musthave a reason for it, but I don't know what it is. He's a queer sort of man, my stepfather!'
'How is he queer?' asked Dick.
'Well - he seems full of secrets,' said Sooty. 'Queer people come here, and they come secretly withoutanyone knowing. I've seen lights shining in our tower on certain nights, but I don't know who putsthem there or why. I've tried to find out, but I can't.'
'Do you think - do you think your father is a smuggler?' said Anne, suddenly.
'I don't think so,' said Sooty. 'We've got one smuggler here, and everyone knows him! See that houseover there to the right, lower down the hill? Well, that's where he lives. He's as rich as can be. Hisname is Barling. Even the police know his goings-on, but they can't stop him! He is very rich andvery powerful, so he does what he likes - and he won't let anyone play the same game as he plays! Noone else would dare to do any smuggling in Castaway, while he does it!'
'This seems rather an exciting place,' said Julian. 'I have a kind of feeling there might be an adventuresomewhere about!'
'Oh no,' said Sooty. 'Nothing ever happens, really. It's only just a feeling you get here, because theplace is so old, so full of secret ways and pits and passages. Why, the whole hill is mined withpassages in the rock, used by the smugglers of olden times!'
'Well,' began Julian, and stopped very suddenly. Everyone stared at Sooty. His secret buzzer hadsuddenly barked from its hidden corner! Someone had opened the door at the end of the passage!
5.






















14













































